---
title: "Bible: 1 Kings 11:1-13"
tags: [bible, 1kings, history, ch11]
book: 1 Kings
chapter: 11
verses: "1-13"
category: History
---


# 1 Kings 11:1-13


## Passage

> **1** But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, {and} Hittites; {together...: or, beside} **2** Of the nations {concerning} which the LORD said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither shall they come in unto you: {for} surely they will turn away your heart after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love. **3** And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines: and his wives turned away his heart. **4** For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, {that} his wives turned away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as {was} the heart of David his father. **5** For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. {Milcom: also called, Molech} **6** And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and went not fully after the LORD, as {did} David his father. {went...: Heb. fulfilled not after} **7** Then did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, in the hill that {is} before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon. **8** And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt incense and sacrificed unto their gods. **9** And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice, **10** And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded. **11** Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant. {is done...: Heb. is with thee} **12** Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy father's sake: {but} I will rend it out of the hand of thy son. **13** Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; {but} will give one tribe to thy son for David my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake which I have chosen.
>
> — 1 Kings 11:1-13 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/1_Kings/1 Kings 9-16.md|1 Kings 9-16]]
- [[Heavy Tidings 1 Kings 14_6|Heavy Tidings, 1 Kings 14:6]]

## Cross-References

- [[1 Kings 10_1-13]]
- [[1 Kings 10_14-11_8]]
- [[1 Kings 10_14-29]]
- [[1 Kings 10_22]]
- [[1 Kings 1]]
- [[1 Kings 12_1-24]]
- [[1 Kings 12_22-24]]
- [[1 Kings 12_25-33]]
