---
title: "Bible: 1 Kings 12:25-33"
tags: [bible, 1kings, history, ch12]
book: 1 Kings
chapter: 12
verses: "25-33"
category: History
---


# 1 Kings 12:25-33


## Passage

> **25** Then Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein; and went out from thence, and built Penuel. **26** And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to the house of David: **27** If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their lord, {even} unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they shall kill me, and go again to Rehoboam king of Judah. **28** Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves {of} gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem: behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. **29** And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan. **30** And this thing became a sin: for the people went {to worship} before the one, {even} unto Dan. **31** And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi. **32** And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that {is} in Judah, and he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places which he had made. {offered...: or, went up to the altar, etc} {sacrificing: or, to sacrifice} **33** So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel the fifteenth day of the eighth month, {even} in the month which he had devised of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of Israel: and he offered upon the altar, and burnt incense. {offered...: or, went up to the altar, etc} {and burnt...: Heb. to burn incense}
>
> — 1 Kings 12:25-33 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/1_Kings/1 Kings 9-16.md|1 Kings 9-16]]

## Cross-References

- [[1 Kings 10_1-13]]
- [[1 Kings 10_14-11_8]]
- [[1 Kings 10_14-29]]
- [[1 Kings 10_22]]
- [[1 Kings 11]]
- [[1 Kings 11_1-13]]
- [[1 Kings 11_1-8]]
- [[1 Kings 11_14-43]]
