---
title: "Bible: 1 Kings 22:41-53"
tags: [bible, 1kings, history, ch22]
book: 1 Kings
chapter: 22
verses: "41-53"
category: History
---


# 1 Kings 22:41-53


## Passage

> **41** And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. **42** Jehoshaphat {was} thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name {was} Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. **43** And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing {that which was} right in the eyes of the LORD: **44** Nevertheless the high places were not taken away; {for} the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places. **45** And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. **46** Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he shewed, and how he warred, {are} they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? **47** And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land. **48** {There was} then no king in Edom: a deputy {was} king. **49** Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber. {made...: or, had ten ships} **50** Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not. **51** And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. **52** Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. **53** And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin:
>
> — 1 Kings 22:41-53 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/1_Kings/1 Kings 17-22.md|1 Kings 17-22]]

## Cross-References

- [[1 Kings 20_1-43]]
- [[1 Kings 20_35]]
- [[1 Kings 21_1-29]]
- [[1 Kings 21_17-24]]
- [[1 Kings 21_17-29]]
- [[1 Kings 21_29]]
