---
title: "Bible: 2 Samuel 15:23-30"
tags: [bible, 2samuel, history, ch15]
book: 2 Samuel
chapter: 15
verses: "23-30"
category: History
---


# 2 Samuel 15:23-30


## Passage

> **23** And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness. {Kidron: Gr. Cedron} **24** And lo Zadok also, and all the Levites {were} with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God: and they set down the ark of God; and Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the city. **25** And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the city: if I shall find favour in the eyes of the LORD, he will bring me again, and shew me {both} it, and his habitation: **26** But if he thus say, I have no delight in thee; behold, {here am} I, let him do to me as seemeth good unto him. **27** The king said also unto Zadok the priest, {Art not} thou a seer? return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. **28** See, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness, until there come word from you to certify me. **29** Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem: and they tarried there. **30** And David went up by the ascent of {mount} Olivet, and wept as he went up, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot: and all the people that {was} with him covered every man his head, and they went up, weeping as they went up. {and wept...: Heb. going up and weeping}
>
> — 2 Samuel 15:23-30 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/2_Samuel/2 Samuel 17-24.md|2 Samuel 17-24]]

## Cross-References

- [[2 Samuel 13_1-22]]
- [[2 Samuel 13_1-39]]
- [[2 Samuel 13_23-39]]
- [[2 Samuel 14]]
- [[2 Samuel 14_1-33]]
- [[2 Samuel 16_1-23]]
- [[2 Samuel 17_1-23]]
- [[2 Samuel 17_1-29]]
