---
title: "Bible: 2 Samuel 21:15-22"
tags: [bible, 2samuel, history, ch21]
book: 2 Samuel
chapter: 21
verses: "15-22"
category: History
---


# 2 Samuel 21:15-22


## Passage

> **15** Moreover the Philistines had yet war again with Israel; and David went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines: and David waxed faint. **16** And Ishbibenob, which {was} of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear {weighed} three hundred {shekels} of brass in weight, he being girded with a new {sword}, thought to have slain David. {the giant: or, Rapha} {spear: Heb. the staff, or, the head} **17** But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succoured him, and smote the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David sware unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel. {light: Heb. candle, or, lamp} **18** And it came to pass after this, that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Saph, which {was} of the sons of the giant. {the giant: or, Rapha} {Saph: or, Sippai} **19** And there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines, where Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim, a Bethlehemite, slew {the brother of} Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear {was} like a weaver's beam. {Jaareoregim: or, Jair} **20** And there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of {great} stature, that had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes, four and twenty in number; and he also was born to the giant. {the giant: or, Rapha} **21** And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea the brother of David slew him. {defied: or, reproached} {Shimea: also called, Shammah} **22** These four were born to the giant in Gath, and fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.
>
> — 2 Samuel 21:15-22 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/2_Samuel/2 Samuel 17-24.md|2 Samuel 17-24]]

## Cross-References

- [[2 Samuel 19_1-43]]
- [[2 Samuel 19_1-8]]
- [[2 Samuel 19_9-43]]
- [[2 Samuel 20]]
- [[2 Samuel 20_1-26]]
- [[2 Samuel 22_1-51]]
- [[2 Samuel 23_1-7]]
- [[2 Samuel 23_8-39]]
