---
title: "Bible: Romans 14:14-23"
tags: [bible, romans, epistle, ch14]
book: Romans
chapter: 14
verses: "14-23"
category: Epistle
---


# Romans 14:14-23


## Passage

> **14** I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that {there is} nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him {it is} unclean. {unclean: Gr. common} **15** But if thy brother be grieved with {thy} meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died. {charitably: Gr. according to charity} **16** Let not then your good be evil spoken of: **17** For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. **18** For he that in these things serveth Christ {is} acceptable to God, and approved of men. **19** Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. **20** For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed {are} pure; but {it is} evil for that man who eateth with offence. **21** {It is} good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor {any thing} whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak. **22** Hast thou faith? have {it} to thyself before God. Happy {is} he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth. **23** And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because {he eateth} not of faith: for whatsoever {is} not of faith is sin. {doubteth: or, discerneth and putteth a difference between meats} {damned: or, condemned, or liable to punishment}
>
> — Romans 14:14-23 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[216 Limitations of Liberty|Limitations of Liberty]]

## Cross-References

- [[Romans 12]]
- [[Romans 12]]
- [[Romans 1]]
- [[Romans 12_19]]
- [[Romans 12_2]]
- [[Romans 12_21]]
- [[Romans 12_3]]
- [[Romans 12_9]]
