---
title: "Bible: John 6:1-14"
tags: [bible, john, gospel, ch6]
book: John
chapter: 6
verses: "1-14"
category: Gospel
---


# John 6:1-14


## Passage

> **1** After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is {the sea} of Tiberias. **2** And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. **3** And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. **4** And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. **5** When Jesus then lifted up {his} eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? **6** And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do. **7** Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. **8** One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, **9** There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many? **10** And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. **11** And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. **12** When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. **13** Therefore they gathered {them} together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. **14** Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.
>
> — John 6:1-14 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/2_Kings/2 Kings 1-4.md|2 Kings 1-4]]

## Cross-References

- [[John 4_1]]
- [[John 4_10-14.md]]
- [[John 4_13-14.md]]
- [[John 4_20]]
- [[John 4_24]]
- [[John 4_34]]
- [[John 4_5]]
- [[John 4_5–6]]
