---
title: "Bible: John 1:1-18"
tags: [bible, john, gospel, ch1]
book: John
chapter: 1
verses: "1-18"
category: Gospel
---


# John 1:1-18


## Passage

> **1** In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. **2** The same was in the beginning with God. **3** All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. **4** In him was life; and the life was the light of men. **5** And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. {comprehended: or, did not admit, or, receive} **6** There was a man sent from God, whose name {was} John. **7** The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all {men} through him might believe. **8** He was not that Light, but {was sent} to bear witness of that Light. **9** {That} was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. **10** He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. **11** He came unto his own, and his own received him not. **12** But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, {even} to them that believe on his name: {power: or, the right, or, privilege} **13** Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. **14** And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth. **15** John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me. **16** And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace. **17** For the law was given by Moses, {but} grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. **18** No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared {him}.
>
> — John 1:1-18 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[_transcripts/Gods Last Word, Hebrews 1_1-3.md|God's Last Word, Hebrews 1-1-3]]

## Cross-References

- [[John 2_1]]
- [[John 2_13]]
- [[John 2_17]]
- [[John 2_19-21.md]]
- [[John 2_19–21.md]]
- [[John 3]]
- [[John 3_1]]
- [[John 3_14]]
