---
title: "Bible: Exodus 14:21-31"
tags: [bible, exodus, law, ch14]
book: Exodus
chapter: 14
verses: "21-31"
category: Law
---


# Exodus 14:21-31


## Passage

> **21** And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go {back} by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry {land}, and the waters were divided. **22** And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry {ground}: and the waters {were} a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left. **23** And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst of the sea, {even} all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. **24** And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, **25** And took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD fighteth for them against the Egyptians. {that they...: or, and made them to go heavily} **26** And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. **27** And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. {overthrew: Heb. shook off} **28** And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, {and} all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them; there remained not so much as one of them. **29** But the children of Israel walked upon dry {land} in the midst of the sea; and the waters {were} a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left. **30** Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore. **31** And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and his servant Moses. {work: Heb. hand}
>
> — Exodus 14:21-31 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[Study Notes Exodus.md]]

## Cross-References

- [[Exodus 12]]
- [[Exodus 12_1-13]]
- [[Exodus 12_1-14]]
- [[Exodus 12_1-51]]
- [[Exodus 12_12]]
- [[Exodus 12_13]]
- [[Exodus 12_27]]
- [[Exodus 12_35-36]]
