---
title: "Bible: Exodus 25:10-22"
tags: [bible, exodus, law, ch25]
book: Exodus
chapter: 25
verses: "10-22"
category: Law
---


# Exodus 25:10-22


## Passage

> **10** And they shall make an ark {of} shittim wood: two cubits and a half {shall be} the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. **11** And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. **12** And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put {them} in the four corners thereof; and two rings {shall be} in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it. **13** And thou shalt make staves {of} shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. **14** And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them. **15** The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it. **16** And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. **17** And thou shalt make a mercy seat {of} pure gold: two cubits and a half {shall be} the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. **18** And thou shalt make two cherubims {of} gold, {of} beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat. **19** And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: {even} of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof. {of...: or, of the matter of the mercy seat} **20** And the cherubims shall stretch forth {their} wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces {shall look} one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be. **21** And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. **22** And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which {are} upon the ark of the testimony, of all {things} which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.
>
> — Exodus 25:10-22 (KJV)

## Referenced By

- [[Ark of the Covenant|Ark_of_the_Covenant]]

## Cross-References

- [[Exodus 23_1-33]]
- [[Exodus 24_1, 9]]
- [[Exodus 24_1-18]]
- [[Exodus 24_3-8]]
- [[Exodus 26_1-37]]
- [[Exodus 27_1-2]]
- [[Exodus 27_1-21]]
