---
title: "Bible: Psalm 89:20-37"
tags: [bible, psalm, wisdom, ch89]
book: Psalm
chapter: 89
verses: "20-37"
category: Wisdom
---


# Psalm 89:20-37


## Passage

> **20** I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him: **21** With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him. **22** The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him. **23** And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. **24** But my faithfulness and my mercy {shall be} with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted. **25** I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. **26** He shall cry unto me, Thou {art} my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. **27** Also I will make him {my} firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. **28** My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. **29** His seed also will I make {to endure} for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. **30** If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; **31** If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; {break: Heb. profane} **32** Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. **33** Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. {will...: Heb. I will not make void from him} {to fall: Heb. to lie} **34** My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. **35** Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. {that...: Heb. if I lie} **36** His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me. **37** It shall be established for ever as the moon, and {as} a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.
>
> — Psalm 89:20-37 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[God|Man After God's Heart]]

## Cross-References

- [[Psalm 88_10-12]]
- [[Psalm 90_10-12]]
- [[Psalm 90_4]]
- [[Psalm 91_11-12]]
