---
title: "Bible: Acts 22:22-30"
tags: [bible, acts, history, ch22]
book: Acts
chapter: 22
verses: "22-30"
category: History
---


# Acts 22:22-30


## Passage

> **22** And they gave him audience unto this word, and {then} lifted up their voices, and said, Away with such a {fellow} from the earth: for it is not fit that he should live. **23** And as they cried out, and cast off {their} clothes, and threw dust into the air, **24** The chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging; that he might know wherefore they cried so against him. **25** And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned? **26** When the centurion heard {that}, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman. **27** Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea. **28** And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom. And Paul said, But I was {free} born. **29** Then straightway they departed from him which should have examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him. {examined him: or, tortured him} **30** On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from {his} bands, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down, and set him before them.
>
> — Acts 22:22-30 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[On to Rome Acts 23_11.md]]

## Cross-References

- [[Acts 20_17-38.md]]
- [[Acts 20_24]]
- [[Acts 20_24 Primary text.md]]
- [[Acts 20_26-27.md]]
- [[Acts 20_28]]
- [[Acts 20_28-31.md]]
- [[Acts 20_35]]
- [[Acts 21_1-14.md]]
