# 147 Bird Watching, Matthew 6:25-33 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** dgxcRMI6wRc
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgxcRMI6wRc

This morning, we'd like to look at just a small part of that Sermon on the Mount as Jesus is talking about anxiety, worry, and its cure. In chapter 6, verse 25, Jesus said, Therefore I say unto you, don't worry. Do not be anxious. Do not take anxious thought for your life. What you are going to eat or what you are going to drink or what you are going to, or for your body, what you are going to wear. Is not your life more than just eating and your body more than just clothes? Behold the fowls of the air. They do not sow, neither do they harvest, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father, your heavenly Father feeds them. And are you not much better than they? Now which of you, by worrying, can add 18 inches to his height? And why do you worry about your clothes? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They do not toil, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon, in all of his glory, was not dressed as beautifully as one of his sons. Wherefore, if God clothes the grass of the field, which exists today and tomorrow is cast into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore do not worry, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or how are we going to be clothed? For it is after all of these things that the heathen, worry, for your heavenly Father knows that you have need of these things, but you seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all of these things will be added unto you. It is interesting how that Jesus so often referred his disciples to nature in order that they might learn lessons about God. But that is very understandable because John tells us in his gospel that Jesus made everything that has been made. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Therefore, because he created all of the things in nature, because he created all of the flowers, because he created all of the flowers, because he created all of the birds, he was extremely conscious of nature, of the birds, of the flowers, of the trees, of the skies, and thus he was constantly using them to illustrate his truths, seeking to draw men's attention to the nature around them and how it demonstrates so many important lessons concerning God. And so he said, behold the fowls of the air. You might say that Jesus ordered us to be bird watchers and that we should be observing the birds, the orthonologists. In the context, he is saying, now don't be worried about your food, what you're going to eat. Worry is one of the most useless and nonproductive pastimes that men engages in. And yet it's amazing how easy it is for us to become worried. And all of us have experienced this nonproductive exercise of time as we've started worrying about things. Yet, to worry is always a sign of a loss of the consciousness of the goodness of God and the greatness of God and the consciousness of God. concern of God for me. Worry is a sign of the lack of faith. Worry and faith are mutually exclusive. Jesus, when he is chiding them for their worrying, he said, O ye of little faith. Why were you worried? Faith and worry are mutually exclusive. Someone said, why pray when you can worry? And it seems that people just engage in worry over some of the most ridiculous things. I actually had a lady come to me one time and say, oh, I'm so worried. I said, what's your problem? She said, oh, we had some property and the oil company came along and gave us a lease. They gave us a big bonus for signing the lease. And she said, I'm so worried. We've got so much now. I'm just afraid something's going to happen to us. And she was really worried because there was nothing to worry about. It's ridiculous the things that can create anxiety, concern, and worry. But Jesus, in telling them that they shouldn't be worried about their food, points to the birds as a classic example to illustrate for them why they should not worry. Now, he said, look at the birds. They are not out planting crops. They are not out harvesting crops. They are not building barns to store their crops in. And yet, your father feeds them. Now, from this, people have taken and created a mistaken idea of what Jesus was teaching. He was not teaching that we should be totally passive about our need of food. He's not saying that we should not plant crops, that we should not harvest crops, that we should not build barns to store the crops. He's not saying that at all. And yet, people so often misinterpret what Jesus is saying and say, oh, you know, I don't need to worry about my food. I can just be totally passive. I don't have to work. I don't have to, you know, do anything. I can just be totally passive. I can just be totally passive. I can just, you know, be fed. The Lord's going to feed me. That's not at all what Jesus is saying. When he said, look at the birds, you don't see a little bird standing on a telephone wire with his mouth open waiting for a bug to fly in. The bird pursues the insects actively, but God provides the insects for him to eat. The bird flies to that plant and begins to eat the seeds of it, but God has provided the seeds for the bird to eat. Not an encouragement to be totally passive, to just sit back and wait for God to come and feed me. But it is saying this, that God will feed me. I don't have to worry about God supplying my food. He does supply it for the birds, and they are not his children. Now, if God provides for just his creation, how much more will God provide for his children? Notice, your father feeds them. Every time you look at a bird, say, my father feeds that bird. Now, he's not the bird's father. He's their creator. But he's my father. And if my father feeds his creation, he will surely feed his children. And it's glorious to be a child of God and have that kind of confidence that my father who feeds the bird is certainly going to take care of my need for food. And I don't have to worry about my food, where it's going to come from. My father will supply. But there are other interesting things that we can learn from birds, more than just the fact that our father takes care of their food. We can learn concerning the wisdom of God. As we read in the Psalms, the heavens declare the glory of God and the earth, the firmament shows his handiwork. today they are speaking to us. Night and tonight their voice is declaring to us the glory, the majesty, the greatness, the wisdom of God. Every day as you look in the world around you, you can see lessons and God is speaking to you. As we sang, this is my Father's world and to my listening ear all nature sings and round me rings the music of the spheres. And God does speak to us. In the rustling grass I hear him pass. He speaks to me everywhere. And as we look at the birds we are intrigued by the marvelous design. We see the aerodynamic engineering that went into the design of the bird and we are enthralled with the wisdom of God. The bird's skeleton, the bones are hollow and thus very light but yet extremely strong, enabling the bird to fly. A half of the bird's weight is made up in muscle, most of them through the chest so that it can work its wings. And then of course the feathers being light to spread them out in order to soar, to glide. Just what wisdom we see in the aerodynamic designs of the bird. Allowing the duck hawk or the eagle to attain speeds of a hundred and eighty miles an hour as it dives down upon its prey. The common little European swift is in fact the arm. is able to fly between 60 and 70 miles an hour in normal flight and when necessary can attain speeds of 100 miles an hour in short bursts. What tremendous design, aerodynamics in these birds. God has enabled the geese to fly over the Himalayas 29,000 feet high. Where the air atmosphere, you know, the air is so much lighter and yet the geese are able to get up at that height and exist in that rarefied atmosphere flying over the Himalayas. Have you ever watched a duck taking off or landing? As the duck is taking off, starts flapping its wings and moving along, actually he's paddling with his feet, starts flapping his wings and then as he starts going, getting lofted, he's still using his feet and you'll see these little water things plopping up as he's getting his extra jet thrust with his feet to get it airborne, you know. And finally, as soon as he does get airborne, he tucks his little retractable landing gears underneath so he is able then to fly and then when they come in for a landing, beautiful to watch, just like on these 747s where they crank down these big aerobatics and the air flaps behind the wings in order to begin to give the thrust of air downward and to slow up the plane as it's hitting, coming into the ground. So the duck sort of folds back his wings, lets down his feathers and creates all of this reverse thrust against the air and he puts out his little feet like this and he comes landing on his feet and then slowly settles into the water. But he's doing a little water skiing there, you know, as he hits the water, you know, as he hits the water, landing on his feet with his, oh, air flaps down, you know, and then gliding into the water. It's marvelous. The aerodynamics, the engineering, the design. God has even designed some birds with tremendous hydrodynamic type of engineering. The loon, for instance, can swim faster than fish and it can chase down and catch fish in the water. And it is able to get down to great depths. They have actually found loons 160 feet deep chasing fish. Consider the birds. They surely testify of the wisdom of your Father. God has also equipped birds with tremendous guidance systems, navigational ability. The bobolinks spend their summer up in Canada. They're in the marshes of Canada. But come fall, they don't like the cold Canadian winters. And so they migrate in great flocks at night as they move south to the northern plains of Brazil where they spend the Canadian winters but which are the Brazilian summers. Liking summertime, they spend their year in spring and summertime by their migrating north and south. As they are migrating towards Brazil from Canada, they fly over to Jamaica to enjoy the Caribbean and the nice climate there. And then they all take off in the evening and they fly nonstop overnight to South America from Jamaica overnight 500 miles. Navigating maybe by the stars, who knows. But who gave that bobolink enough sense to know how to navigate by the stars? Which stars to follow? And how to navigate by the stars so that he always arrives there at the same place in South America when he makes his flight from Jamaica. And of course coming back he does the same thing. He flies overnight from South America up to Jamaica. But then there is the Arctic Turn. And the Arctic Turn spends his summers up in the Arctic. But in August he takes off flying towards the Antarctic. And he spends his winter months in the Antarctic when it is their summer. And he spends his summer months down there. A distance of 11,000 miles. And then in June he returns to the Arctic making a trip of 22,000 miles round trip. Again navigating all of that distance. Being guided, being directed by some ability that God has placed there of being able to travel that far. And of course my favorite is that golden plover who loves Hawaii. But doesn't care for all of the tourists that are there in the summer season. And likes more privacy for his romance. And so come springtime the golden plover flies over 2,000 miles non-stop up to the Aleutians where he mates, builds their nest, mates, has his romances. And has their kids. But come autumn the golden plover doesn't want to spend the winter in the Aleutians. He begins to think of those marvelous winters in Hawaii. And so he takes off from the Aleutian Islands flying down to Hawaii non-stop over the trackless Pacific Ocean. And yet he always is able to come right into Hawaii. Those little islands out there in the middle of the Pacific. He never loses them. And there are times when storms can blow them as much as 200 miles off course. But they always correct their course and always come into Hawaii. You say, well, what's so big about that? He's been to Hawaii already. Well, I challenge you to go down here and get in a little sailboat without any compasses or any navigational devices and see if you can find Hawaii. Somehow God has built in a fabulous navigational system and we don't know exactly how they do navigate. They say by the stars, but they fly under the clouds and sometimes there's a cloud cover all the way. They theorize that maybe they are following magnetic fields. But we really don't know. But the amazing thing is you say they've been there already but the parents desert their kids and they take off for Hawaii two weeks before the kids arrive. Kids have enough strength to fly that far. And they desert their kids and leave them up in the Aleutians. But don't worry about the little kids because two weeks later they take off and they fly directly to Hawaii and they've never been there. Now how do they know that Hawaii exists? And how do they know how to get to Hawaii? How do they know how to navigate there when they've never been there? Somehow instinctively God has put... Someone says, oh, you're a bird brain. Say, oh, thank you. As small as the bird brain is if we had as much packed into our brain as a bird has packed into his we'd be pretty brilliant. All of these things testify to us the wisdom of God. Now next time you are prone to be worried about your bills worried about food worried about how you're going to get along go outside and look at the birds. Start watching them. And as you are watching the birds observing their habits listening to their songs watching them in flight then know that the God who with infinite wisdom created them and is sustaining them is your Heavenly Father. And He is interested in them and He watches over them and takes care of them to make sure that they are fed. But also know that you are far more valuable to God than is that little bird. Jesus said are not two sparrows sold for a half of a cent? Or you can get a bargain five of them are sold for a penny. He said but you are worth so much more than are they. Know that you are so much more valuable to the Father than the birds. And yet your Father takes care of the birds. He sees that they are fed. Surely He will see that you are fed. You see the value of looking at nature the value of looking at the birds and beginning to study the birds is that as we study them closely we become intrigued with their feeding habits. We become intrigued with their flights with their intuitive type of understanding and knowledge. And we become very conscious of God who created them. And as I become conscious of God power of God the wisdom of God the greatness of God my mind is diverted off of myself and off of my problems and onto Him. What I am doing is actually correcting wrong thinking patterns. Because as I think about myself and as I think about the things around me there's plenty to worry me. But as I think about God there's really nothing to worry about because God is in control. So it's important worry is always caused by thinking about myself. The cure for worry is thinking about God. And by the observation of nature I am becoming aware of God God's creative power God's creative forces. And I quit thinking about myself and when I quit thinking about myself I quit worrying about myself. So it's all in the correcting of wrong thinking patterns diverting now my thoughts my attention to God there off of myself and the worry suddenly goes. As God has been developing Calvary Chapel through the years there were stages where I was extremely worried about Calvary Chapel. When we were meeting a block away in that sanctuary that we had built but when it had become totally inadequate to handle the crowds we had expanded the auditorium and finally we were setting up 500 chairs in the patio and there wasn't even room in the patio for all of the people. But I was worried because winter was coming and I knew that the people couldn't be sitting out there in the patio during the winter time. It was too cold and there would be Sundays when it would be raining and it's just not practical to have people sitting outside in the winter time and so I was worried what are we going to do with all the people? What can we do? And I was just all worried about how in the world we were going to accommodate the people. You know, summer's passing, winter's coming, God, we've got to do something. What are we going to do? And I was worried about it. Someone suggested that we buy this 10 acres over here but the price, I was worried about the price. How in the world could we ever purchase the 10 acres? All we had was $60,000. But then they said, well, they'll take back paper. You can get a loan. And so we went in and we bought this 10 acres but then I was worried how are we going to develop it? You know, the purchase price is just the beginning and then we had to put in streets, we had to put in sidewalks, we had to put in, you know, the parking lot, the improvements, had to put in the tent. And as all of these things were coming down, as I would park here at the stop sign waiting for the green arrow so I could turn left and go up Fairview towards our house, I would look over at this 10 acres. It was bare at that time and I would almost panic. I would think, Chuck, what are you doing to those precious people? Putting them into debt like that. What are you doing biting off such a big chunk of land? You'll never need that much land. Things are going great. You've got it made. You know, there's money in the bank and more money coming in than what you're spending. Why do you have to blow everything? What if you go bankrupt? What if you can't pay for it? And man, my heart would start beating. I'd start getting the sweats as I was sitting there waiting for the green arrow to come. And then the Lord would begin to speak to me and He'd say, Whose church is it? And I'd say, It's your church, Lord. He said, Then why are you worried about it? I said, Well, I don't know, Lord. I guess I just like to worry. But you know, before the signal would turn, the Lord would speak to me and I'd think, Wow, it is His church. It's not my church. Why should I worry about it? So the Lord goes bankrupt and that's His problem. And by the time I get to the San Diego freeway, I was just singing. I was rejoicing. Lord, it's your church, your problem. You know, you take care of it. And you know, He did. When the sanctuary was completed, we didn't know a dime. Yet we've never taken up special offerings for anything. Never had to. God's just always provided. Isn't it interesting how that so often those things we are worried about, by the time we get there, they don't even exist. We worry about so many things that really, we didn't need to worry at all because God had already gone before us and by the time we get there, He's already taken care of it. You see, we're just worried as we think down the line. But what's going to happen then? Like the women on the way to the tomb on Easter Sunday morning. Mary and the others, they're saying, Who's going to roll away the stone from the door of the sepulcher? All worried about this big stone over the door of the sepulcher. They're all worried about this big stone over the door of the sepulcher. Who's going to roll it away? How are we going to get in? All worried. By the time they got there, the stone was already rolled away and an angel was sitting on it. You see, all of the worry was for nothing. The problem they were worried about didn't even exist. For the Lord had preceded them to that point and had taken care of it by the time they got there. And I have found that this is true in my own life. So many of the things that I worried for was totally in vain. Because by the time I got there, the Lord had preceded me there and had already taken care of it for me. Consider the birds. They'll get your minds off of yourself and off of you and onto your Father who feeds them, who created them, who takes care of them, who loves them, is concerned about them, but not nearly as much as He loves you and is concerned about you because you love Him. Because you're His child. And if your Father takes care of the birds, you can be sure He's going to take care of you.

Shall we pray? Father, we thank You for the beautiful assurance that we have today through Jesus Christ. That we need not to worry because we know that our Father shall supply all of our needs according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus our Lord. Lord, help us to get our eyes off of our situations and help us, Lord, to get our eyes upon You as we listen to the voice of nature teaching us the goodness of God. As I say, if you're not a child of God, your worries are legitimate and you should be worried every time. You read a newspaper, plenty to worry you. Social upheavals, man, you ought to be worried. Economic upheaval, you ought to be worried. Banks may fail, you better worry. If you're a child of God, David said, I will not fear, I will not worry though the mountains be removed and cast into the midst of the sea. Because God is my refuge and my strength. I'm not trusting in my own abilities. I'm not trusting in my own strength. I'm trusting in God. He's my refuge and my strength. Therefore, I'm not going to fear. No matter come what may, I won't fear because God is my refuge and my strength. The key is being a child of God. Children of God need not to worry. So the key is just being a child of God. And if you're not a child of God and you'd like to become a child of God, God has provided the way so simply. It is through Jesus Christ, and the Bible says, and as many as received Him to them gave thanks. He gave them the power to become the sons of God, even to those who believed upon His name. That's how easy it is. Just to believe in Jesus Christ and you become a child of God. He becomes your heavenly Father. And if you have Him as a heavenly Father, then you have no worries except those which you create in your own mind. But no reason to worry. If you're not a child of God and would like to become a child of God, I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room and there just meet with one of the pastors. Bow your knee before the Lord. Ask Jesus Christ to come into your life. Begin believing in Him. And all of the benefits, all of the blessings, all of the glory, all of the joy of being a child of God can be yours before you go home today. Such a deal. How can you afford to pass it up? May the Lord be with you. May the Lord bless you, give you a beautiful week. May He watch over you. And may He cause you to learn of Him through the many voices of nature that are speaking to us of His love, of His greatness, of His wisdom, of His power, and of His concern for you, His child. God bless and God be with you.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgxcRMI6wRc)