# 248 Charge It to My Account, Philemon 1:16-17 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** B_okqEbQJmg
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_okqEbQJmg

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to Philemon beginning with verse 16 as Paul is writing to Philemon concerning Onesimus who was once a slave of Philemon but had run away. Paul is now sending him back with this personal letter and as Paul writes to Philemon he asks him now to receive again Onesimus not as a slave but above a slave as a beloved brother. Especially Paul said to me but how much more now to you both in the flesh and in the Lord. And if you count me therefore a prophet receive him as myself and if he has wronged you or owes you anything put it on my account. I Paul have written it with my own hand I will repay it. During this particular period of Roman history it is estimated that there were some 60 million slaves and in that period of history the slave had to have one of the worst plights of any man. A slave was not allowed any rights at all. He had no rights of ownership. He could own nothing. Everything he had belonged to his master. His master had complete and total authority over him. The master could do with his slave whatever he chose. He could beat him severely without cause or reason. He could torture him. In fact a master could even put his slave to death and never have to account for it to anyone. The slave was his property. He could do with it as he wished and if he wished to destroy his property he had that right to do so and never be charged for the murdering of a slave. Because there were so many slaves some 60 million at this time had they determined to rebel against their lot in life it could have been a very serious problem for the Roman Empire. And so they kept these people in miserable conditions. And if a slave shown any independence by running away he was usually when caught immediately put to death in order to instill fear in the other slaves and encourage them not to try to run away. Slavery was a horrible thing. Especially under the Roman Empire. Onesimus had been a slave to a man in the city of Colossae by the name of Philemon. Onesimus stole some money from Philemon. Onesimus stole some money from Philemon. Onesimus stole some money from Philemon. And took off for the capital of the Roman Empire the city of Rome itself. Here a thousand miles away from Colossae or 800 miles away from Colossae somehow he met Paul the Apostle. Perhaps he was thrown in jail for Paul was in prison. It could be that for a time he was a cellmate to Paul. Whatever the case, his past life was a living hell. His path crossed with Paul's. And as the result, Onesimus heard about Jesus Christ and received true liberation. The liberation of Jesus Christ from the bondage to sin. So grateful was he that he became a servant to Paul. He began to run errands for Paul and began to serve with Paul in the cause of the gospel. He began to run errands for Paul and began to serve with Paul in the cause of the gospel. He began to run errands for Paul and began to serve with Paul in the cause of the gospel. Sometime during their conversations his past was revealed. As Paul found out that he was a runaway slave having run away from Philemon. I might say that the least thing that could happen to a slave who would run away was that he would be branded with a hot branding iron, the letter F in his forehead. Which in Latin stood for fugitivus, which is a fugitive. Paul found out that Onesimus was a runaway slave, that he had stolen money from Philemon. And Paul probably said, you mean Philemon who lives in Colossae? And he said, yes. Paul said, what a small world. I know him. In fact, I led him to Jesus Christ. That man owes me his life. He said, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I want you to remain and serve with me here in the gospel. But I would not do it without his consent and permission. So I'm going to send you back to Philemon with this letter. And you present this letter to Philemon and I'm going to ask him to set you free from your slavery in order that you might come and join me in the work of the gospel. And so this little personal letter to Philemon is Paul's letter. And so this little personal letter to Philemon is Paul's letter. And so this little personal letter to Philemon is Paul's letter. In which he intercedes for this runaway slave. And in this letter we then get an interesting idea of what intercession is about. And it is important that we know what intercession is about because the scripture says that Jesus is interceding for us. Hebrews 7.25 said, wherefore he ever lives to make intercession for us. Wherefore he ever lives to make intercession for us. Here is where it comes in pay, In Romans, Paul asked the question, Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ who has died Yea, rather is risen again and is even at the right hand of the Father making intercession for us. Now, we so often have been deceived by the enemy in believing that Jesus is condemning us because we often are condemning ourselves. We have failed. We have failed again. We have failed again. we're discouraged we're disappointed we had intended to do the right thing but we failed and as we feel this sense of failure we're condemning ourselves oh why did I do that I don't know why I did that and we're condemning ourselves and somehow we imagine that Jesus is also saying shame shame shame why did you do that you know and condemning us but Jesus said I didn't come to condemn I came to save and so Paul asked the question who is he that condemneth and then he answers by saying not Jesus you know you may have a lot of people condemning you you may be condemning yourself but there's one who isn't condemning you and that's Jesus Christ for he died for you in fact he rose again in his at the right hand of the father right now making intercession you for you that's the opposite of condemning one who is interceding in your behalf and Christ could not be doing both he could not be interceding and also condemning and so it's good to have Jesus on your side making intercession for us here in this little epistle we get a classic example of one man interceding for another and it gives us then a little insight as to what Jesus is doing for us one historic note several years later as Ignatius was heading to Rome one of the early church fathers he sent letters out of which we still have copies of several of his personal letters one of the letters which we still have a copy of is a letter to the overseer or the bishop of the church in Ephesus, my beloved Onesimus. This man who was once a slave ultimately became the overseer of the church in Ephesus that was founded by Paul.

In his intercession, Paul makes three basic requests. The first request was that Onesimus would receive again or that Philemon would receive again Onesimus but this time not as a slave but as a beloved brother. Now, he was still a slave and would be a slave until officially Philemon had set him free. But Paul is saying, look, I want you to receive him. Don't receive him as a slave. I want you to receive this man as a beloved brother in Jesus Christ. And Paul makes an interesting rationale here. He said, how do you know but that he did not run away and you lost him for a season in order that you might gain him as an eternal brother in the kingdom? How do you know but what God's hand wasn't in this whole thing, even in his righteousness, running away from you? That the purposes of God were accomplished. God wanted him to meet me here in Rome in order that he might find Jesus Christ and as he comes back, he comes back to you as a full-fledged brother in the Lord. You might now have him eternally as a brother in Christ. A lot of times we do not understand the loss of friends or the loss of husband or wife, as the case may be. But how do you know? But what God isn't working a special plan and you may lose them for a season that you might gain them eternally. That God might do the work within their hearts and lives of bringing them to Jesus Christ and thus you've gained actually an eternal brother or sister in Jesus. We never know what God has purposed or what God has planned. Sometimes the things that we look at is just so terrible and awful. And we may be even, almost cursing these things that happen. As no doubt Philemon, when he found out that Onesimus had stolen some money and run away, he probably was thinking, if I could just get hold of him, I'd break his neck and have him killed. And it was probably just really saying all these kind of things and yet how little he knew the plan that God had. And how many times we find ourselves perhaps objecting straniously because we don't understand the full cycle, what God intends to work out through this situation. And I'm saying, how could they do that to me? How can they do that? And in reality, God's got an eternal plan that he's working out that once I see the full cycle, I'll understand and say, oh, isn't God good?

The second thing that he requests is that he would receive Onesimus even as he would receive Paul himself. Now, I want you not just to receive him, but I want you to receive him just like you would receive me. Now, Paul was probably the most important person in the whole world in Philemon's life. If you would meet Philemon and talk to him and you'd say, who is the most important person to you in the whole world? Who do you respect? Who do you respect more highly than anybody else? He would immediately answer, oh, Paul. My, it is through this man that I came to know Jesus Christ and I have the glorious gift of eternal life. Paul, by far.

Now, Paul is saying, look, I want you to receive him as you would receive me with the same kind of courtesy, with the same kind of respect, with the same kind of love that you would give to me. I want you to give it to him. I want you to treat him just like you would treat me. The third thing that Paul requests is, and if he owes you anything, charge it to me. I, Paul, sign, I will repay it. Cancel his debt. Charge his debt to me. I'll take the full responsibility for whatever he owes you. I want you to forgive his debt and charge it to me. He said, you remember, you owe me everything. But I'll take, I'll take responsibility. I, Paul, sign, I will repay it. So, whatever he owes, charge it to me. And so, Paul's beautiful intercession for this slave, Onesimus, who, as a slave, had no hope, only a life of abject misery, possessing nothing.

Now, as we think of Jesus Christ,

our intercessor, who, who is there in heaven making intercession for us. And as we look at these requests of Paul and we think of Jesus Christ interceding for us,

we find Jesus saying to the Father, Father, I want you to receive them. Not anymore as sinners. But, Lord, I want you to receive them as pure, righteous, holy. As though they had never sinned. I want you to receive them, Father, not as slaves, but as children, children of God, heirs, and joint heirs of the kingdom of God. As Jesus said to his disciples, hey, I don't call you servants anymore. I call you friends because you're in a category higher than a servant. Servant doesn't know what his master is doing. I'm gonna let you know what I'm doing. Father, receive them. And then, more than that, even as you have received me, or I want you to receive them as you would receive me, the Son, so loved of the Father. And yet, Jesus is saying, Father, I want you to accept them just as much as you accept me. We are told in Ephesians chapter one that one of the blessings that we have as children of God is that we are, we are accepted in the beloved. God accepts me in Christ Jesus. God accepts you in Christ Jesus. I am accepted because Jesus died on the cross for my sins. As you read in Isaiah, all we like sheep have gone astray. We turned every one of us to our own way, but God laid on him the iniquities of us all. Jesus is interceding for you and says, Father, I want you to just receive them as you would receive me. And in Christ I have this glorious acceptance by God. Now, any person who can have this glorious acceptance by God through the work of Jesus Christ has to have something wrong with him to try to plead his own case before God and seek to be accepted. How audacious of a person to think that he can just come directly to God and say, God, I want you to receive me because I plan to live a better life. I want you to receive me because I'm gonna be as good as I can. And on the basis of your promises of being better, you're wanting God to accept you. Listen, I would never ask God to accept me because I'm so pure, because I'm not so pure. I would never ask God to accept me because I'm so perfect, because I'm not perfect. And if I ask God to accept me, impure and as imperfect as I am, I'd be asking God to accept impurity. I would be asking God to accept imperfection. God, I want you to accept my works. Well, God already said concerning my works that they are like filthy rags. No, I'm not seeking acceptance on my work or my merit. I have been accepted on the basis of what Jesus has done for me. And now he is interceding for me. And he is saying, Father, even as you have received me, I want you to receive them, treat them just like you would treat me. And you know how much the Father loves the Son. He's expressed it. And to think that God would love me and treat me even as his Son is just something that, overwhelms me. Then finally, if they owe you anything, charge it to my account. Oh, this to me is so glorious in the work of Jesus Christ in that he paid the price to redeem me from my sin. Now, I owed a tremendous debt. I mean, my sins. I was a debtor, a great debtor. I could not pay my debt. There is nothing I could do to atone for my guilt. There is nothing that I could do to make up for my evil. I was spiritually bankrupt, a slave to sin, running away from God. And Jesus comes along and intercedes for me and says, Father, if he owes you anything, charge it to my account. As we sang, Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. Sin had left me. But he washed it white as snow and all of my guilt was laid upon Jesus Christ. He bore the sins of many. He bore our iniquities. He carried our transgressions to the cross. He paid the price, that he might bring to us redemption, that hope of eternal life. And as he enters here, seeds for me today. All that I owe, the debt of sin, has been laid to his account, and I have been accounted righteous before God because of him. I'll tell you, anybody that won't accept that kind of a deal has to be a few bricks short of a load. The story is told of Peter the Great when he was czar of Russia, that one of his favorite generals had a son who was a lieutenant in the Russian army and was in charge of the finances of one of the large military bases. This lieutenant, the son of the general, was involved in gambling. He started drinking, and he began to embezzle from the budget and from the funds. Notice came that the government was sending all of his money to the Russian army, and he was in charge of the finances of one of the large military bases. This young lieutenant knew that the auditors would find his embezzlement. He knew that his father, the great general, would be disgraced, and he felt that the only way out was to commit suicide. And so he decided that before he committed suicide, he would correct the books, balance the books, so that the auditors would know exactly how he was and where he was defrauding. He worked almost all night until he finally came up with the final total that he had embezzled. And he wrote the total on a piece of paper, and he wrote under it, a great debt, who can pay it? As he was writing this note, a great debt, who can pay it? So weary from working on the figures all night, he just sort of dropped into a sleep. That evening, unannounced, Peter the Great, actually in the early hours of the morning, Peter the Great arrived at the camp. As he was walking down the hall, he saw the light coming out from under the door, so he opened the door and saw this lieutenant, the son of his favorite general, his head over on the desk asleep, and so he tiptoed in, and he saw all of the figuring that was being done, and then he saw this amount, and the terse note, a great debt, who can pay it? And he saw the lieutenant's pistol there on the desk, and he immediately put everything together, what had happened, what was going on. And so he took the pen, and he signed his own name across the note, a great debt, who can pay it? And he signed Peter. As John began to break, the young lieutenant awoke with a start, disgusted with himself for falling asleep, grabbed his pistol, put it to his temple, and as he started to squeeze the trigger, he looked at the note that he had written, a great debt, who can pay it? And he saw the signature of Peter the Great. And he looked over to the door, and under the door there had been shoved an envelope, and in the envelope, the amount of money that he had embezzled. Paul said, if he owes you anything, put it to my account, I will repay it. I sign in my own hand. And so with Jesus Christ, I look at the debt of sin. I look at what I have done, and my failures, and I say, oh God, a great debt, who can pay it? And Jesus signs his name. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left. A crimson stain, but he washed it as white as snow. And as he intercedes for me, he says, Father, if he owes you anything, put it to my account, I will pay it. And he takes the responsibility of my sin, and he dies in my place, and is now making intercession for me, that I might share in the eternal kingdom of God as a son. Father, don't receive him as a slave. Receive him as a son. Beloved brother of mine, I have a friend who is an attorney who one day told me, any man, no matter how good an attorney he may be thought to be, if he tries to represent himself in court as a fool for an attorney. Now, if I were charged with some kind of a crime, and I had to go to court, and there would be the threat of imprisonment, I would get the finest attorney I could ever find to represent me. Because I wouldn't want to spend five years in jail. In fact, I wouldn't want to spend five days in jail. So I wanted to make sure that whoever was representing me was qualified, sharp, good, that I'd have a good representation. That would be just to keep me out of incarceration for 30 days or so. But what about when your eternal destiny is being decided? Dare you try to plead your own case before God? Dare you offer to God your failures and your feeble efforts, your bumbling? You would be a fool to try to do so, especially when you can be represented by Jesus Christ, who seeks to represent you before the Father. When the judge shall at last call my name, from the throne, and say, who will answer for this guilty soul? Jesus Christ is going to step forth and say, Father, I want you to receive him, not as a sinner. I've washed him and cleansed him from his sin. So receive him, Father, as you would receive me. If he owes anything, just put it on my account. I paid for him. And I'll tell you, I'm going to say, all right, you know, how thankful I am. That there is no condemnation now to those that are in Christ Jesus. Far from condemning me, he died for me. He rose again, and he lives to intercede. Don't you think you ought to turn your case over to him? He's never lost a case yet, shall we pray? Father, we thank you today that Jesus bore our iniquity, and intercedes for the transgressors. And so we lay our case, Lord, in your hands, that you might represent us. And Lord, we trust in you, in that work that you did in our behalf. And we thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Jesus said, if you confess me before men, then I will also confess you before my Father, which is in heaven. But if you deny me before men, then I will also deny you. So, when your name is ultimately called,

and you have to stand before the judge of the universe, the eternal God, the creator, before whom everything is naked and revealed, and you stand there open, the truth is out. And you find yourself desperate, turning for help. And as you turn to Jesus, what will the response be? Will he shake his head no? Sorry, you denied me before men. I don't know you. Or will he step forth and say, Father, one of mine. Receive them like you receive me. If they owe anything, put it to my account. You see, that's the only alternative you have. Those are your options. Either you are going to stand there trying to represent, yourself, or you can have Jesus standing there representing you. Those are the only two options that you'll have. I'll tell you what, the wisest thing you could ever do is opt for Jesus Christ as your representative. And I'd encourage you to go back to the prayer room, and there just ask him to take your case, the mess that you've made of your life, and to begin his work by his Holy Spirit in transforming you into a child of God and making you the kind of a person he wants you to be. May the Lord be with you now. Watch over and keep you in his love and in his grace. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_okqEbQJmg)