# 124 Commitment, Daniel 3:16-18 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** QzkFdDlbCpA
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QzkFdDlbCpA

This morning we'd like to look at chapter 3, beginning with verse 16. But before we get to the actual text, I'll give you just a short, brief background. In the third year of King Jehoiakim, Nebuchadnezzar came and conquered Jerusalem. He took back to Babylon captives, especially some of the young men who were outstanding in science and in the understanding of the Israelites. Among these young men that he took, there was Daniel, there was Azariah, there was Mishael, and Hananiah. Now, as they were being groomed to stand in the court of Nebuchadnezzar, being taught the Chaldean language and being trained in the customs of the Chaldeans, they were being offered to eat from the king's table, the king's meat and the king's wine. However, because the king's meat was usually sacrificed to pagan gods before it was placed upon his table, they purposed in their hearts. They purposed in their hearts. They purposed in their hearts. Not to defile their bodies with the king's meat. This created a little problem because the man who was in charge of their development felt that if they did not appear healthy and strong, that Nebuchadnezzar would hold him responsible and it would be his neck. And so they said, well, look, let's just take a 10-day period. Let us eat the grains, the vegetables for 10 days, let the other fellows have the meat and all that. And if at the end of 10 days we look sickly and all, then we'll eat the meat. But at the end of the 10 days, they were healthier looking than the rest of them. And so they were allowed to continue this vegetarian type of diet and not eat of the king's meat. Nebuchadnezzar then had a dream that was very puzzling to him. It troubled him. One of the problems was he forgot what the dream was. All he remembered was his reality. And so he called together his wise men, soothsayers, astrologers, all of them that they might come before him and they might tell his dream and interpret it for him. But all of them declared that no one but the God in heaven knows what man dreams and there's no man on earth that could tell the king his dream or its meaning. And so he ordered them to be put to death. Ariok came to Daniel, told him of the king's edict, and he said, I am able. I am able to tell the king his dream and its meaning. And so Daniel prayed with these three fellows and God revealed unto Daniel the interpretation and the dream. And he went in before the king and told him that he had a dream of a great image, had a head of gold, had a chest of silver, had stomach of brass, legs of iron, and feet of iron and clay. And he said, you were watching this great image until there came a stone out of the mountain, not cut with hands, and it smote this great image in its feet so that the whole image crumbled and the stone began to grow until it was a mountain that covered the entire earth. And he said, this is the meaning of your dream. God has shown to you the kingdoms that will rule over the earth and you, Nebuchadnezzar, your kingdom is the head of gold, but your kingdom will be replaced by an inferior kingdom, the chest of silver. Which will fall to an yet inferior kingdom, the stomach of brass, which will be destroyed and ground to powder by the iron legs, even as iron grinds everything to powder. And he went ahead and interpreted the dream for Nebuchadnezzar that the image represented the various kingdoms that would govern the earth. Now Nebuchadnezzar, who was a great one to make proclamations, proclaimed that there is no God in all the earth. Like the God of Daniel that is able to reveal secrets, interpret dreams, and so forth, and that everybody should honor the God of Daniel. But then he turned right around and defied the dream's interpretation. Inasmuch as he was the head of gold in the dream of this great image, he ordered that a great image be made and placed in the plains of Dura, some ninety feet tall or sixty cubic meters tall. And he said, this is the dream of the God of Daniel. And he said, this is the dream of the God of Daniel. And he said, this is the dream of the God of Daniel. And that at the sounding of music, everyone was to bow down and worship this image, but he ordered it to be made all of gold. Now the ordering of it all of gold was defying the word of God, saying the Babylonian kingdom will not fall to an inferior kingdom. The Babylonian kingdom will last forever. It was his defiance of what? What God had revealed. Well, of course, now we sitting here with the advantage of history, and looking back, we can see that Nebuchadnezzar was wrong. The Babylonian kingdom indeed was replaced by the Medo-Persian empire, which fell to the Grecian empire, which fell to the Roman empire, and the sequence was just as God predicted. But he was defying God, and he ordered this great image to be made all of gold, and at the sounding of music, everybody to bow down. And so he ordered the music to be sounded, and the people all bowed down to worship the image. Many people see in this interesting types which foreshadow the future. For we are told concerning the Antichrist that is going to come, of which Nebuchadnezzar is a type, that he is going to create an image, and he's going to give power to the people. And he's going to give power to the people. And he's going to give power to the people. And he's going to give power to the people. And he's going to give power to the image to speak, and they're going to demand that the whole world worship the image of the beast, which has been given power to speak. And if any man does not worship the image of the beast, he is to be put to death. And so Bible teachers see here an interesting parallel between Nebuchadnezzar, the image that he made, and the order that all should worship it or be put to death. There were three young men of the Hebrews, these three men that came with Daniel, who were renamed by Chaldean names of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who refused to bow to this image. And so it was reported to Nebuchadnezzar, there is among the province three men from Judah who are governors over your province who have refused to bow to the image of the to bow down and to worship the beast. Well, Nebuchadnezzar had never had anyone defy his orders before. He was furious at their defiance. And he called them in. And he said, I understand that you did not bow down and worship at the sound of music according to my orders. I'll give you one more chance. We'll have the musicians sound off again and if you don't bow down, I'll have you thrown into the burning, fiery furnace. That's where we pick up the story in verse 16 of chapter 3. So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning furnace. And he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor will we worship the golden image which you have set up. These men were men of real commitment. And because they were men of real commitment, they were willing to go against the popular tide. Everyone had bowed down to worship except these three.

Men of commitment have the strength to stand against the current of the world. Paul the apostle speaks of the course of this world or the current of this world. And we realize that the world is moving along and flowing along in a current. There is the world standard. There is the worldly way. And there is tremendous pressures upon us. There's tremendous peer pressure to just throw our lot in, to just sort of flow with the corrupted world around us. In these days in which we live, there has been a tremendous corrupting of moral values. And there is tremendous pressure for us to just say, oh, well, you know, let every man live as he pleases, you know. And the pressure is against anyone who would dare to stand up against the current of this world. And yet we as Christians must stand up against it. The word of God tells us to love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. For he that hath the love of the world in his heart hath not the love of the Father. For all that is of the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, the pride of life is of the world and it is not of God. As a Christian, I must make my commitment to live a righteous life before the Lord. And though the whole world be moving in another direction, I must be willing to stand. And only by a full commitment to God can I stand against such pressure. The world is anti-God. The world is in rebellion. The world is in rebellion against God. The world declares that the material physical realm is superior to the spiritual. Whereas God has declared the superiority of the spiritual over the material.

And as you go out into the world today and as you pass South Coast Plaza and other places, you'll see what I am talking about when I declare that the world declares the superiority of the material over the spiritual. But God has declared that the spiritual aspects of my life are more important and are superior to the material things. But if I dare to advocate this, then I am facing the pressures from the world. Without a real commitment to the Lord, you'll just be swept away in the tide of the world. You get into that everybody is doing it syndrome. The fact that everybody may be doing it does not make it right. I'll never forget the first time I pulled that everybody is doing it on my mother when I was wanting to do something that everybody was doing. And she had said that I could not. I said, but mom, everybody's doing it. She said, but if everybody was jumping in the fire, would you then jump in the fire? Everybody is crazy enough to jump in the fire. Do you want to then go jump in because everybody's doing it? She said, now look, son, any dead person, any fish can float down the river.

It takes a live fish to swim against the current. She said, as a child of God, you must face the fact you're going to be going against the current of the world. And you're going to have to be alive to go against the current of the world. And it's going to take strength. It's going to take commitment. I thank God for those words of wisdom from my mother.

Because it is true. It is true. If you have not, if you have not made a real commitment to the Lord, you're going to be swept away with this tide of immorality that is just sweeping through the nation today.

Men who are committed are men who change the world. The strength of communism really lies in the commitment of its advocates. Sometimes I wish that we as Christians would be as committed to our cause as they are to theirs. They're willing to sacrifice for their cause. They're willing to suffer for their cause. It is because they are so totally committed that they are a danger. Men who are committed change the world either for good or for evil. It's that commitment to a cause that gives strength. Paul the Apostle is a man of outstanding commitment. He was able to say, for to me to live is Christ. Hey, talk about living. To me, to live is Christ. It's just giving myself to Him. And to die, is gain. How can you stop a man like that? The truth is you don't. They tried stoning him. And they walked away thinking he was dead. And his friends were all weeping around him thinking also that he was dead. And he stood up and shook himself. He said, well, let's go on and preach the gospel. You don't stop those kind of men. He was in Caesarea in Agabus. The prophet came down from Jerusalem. And he took Paul's girdle and he tied himself up and he said, so is the man to be bound who owns, this girdle, when he gets to Jerusalem. And all of Paul's friends began to weep and say, oh, Paul, don't go to Jerusalem. Oh, please don't go to Jerusalem. Paul said, what do you mean by these tears? You think you can dissuade me? You think I'm worried about being bound for Christ? Hey, I'm ready to die for Christ. The threats of being bound don't bother me at all. I'm ready to die. You don't stop men with that kind of a commitment. These three Hebrew children, they said, look, King, we're not even careful how we answer you. King has just threatened, hey, either you bow or I'm going to throw you in the furnace. They said, we're not even worried about answering you. Because the God that we serve is able to deliver us from your fiery furnace. And he surely will deliver us from you. If we, you know, fry in the fire, then we're going to be delivered out of your hand. And you can't do anything more to us. The worst you can do is burn us in your fire. God's going to deliver us out of your hand. But even if he doesn't, we're still not going to bow. How do you stop him? You can't. Men with that kind of commitment are the men who, as was testified of Paul, turn the world upside down. But it takes a real commitment.

How does a person become so committed? Going back in the text in chapter 1, they have purposed in their hearts. Purposing in your heart is much more than just having a mindset. Well, I have decided that I am going to, you know, and I have a mental mindset that I'm going to do a particular... I have decided I'm going to go on a diet. I'm not going to be overweight anymore. I'm going to lose all of this excess pounds, you know, that I'm carrying around. And I've just determined I'm going to do that. Well, you know how far that'll get you. You know how far it's gotten you. We've set our mind to do something. And oftentimes, as we set our mind to a particular thing, it's so easy to change our minds. But if you have set, your heart and purposed in your heart, that heart set is something that isn't changed. That becomes a part of my very existence, a part of me. That doesn't change. They've purposed in their hearts not to defile themselves. Oh, what a marvelous purpose for a person to make in his own heart. I'm not going to defile myself. I've purposed that I'm going to live for God. I've purposed that I'm going to live a life of holiness and purity and righteousness. I've purposed in my heart I'm going to do the right thing. It's a deeper commitment than just in my mind deciding or determining to do something. That's why the Bible speaks so much about the heart. That's why the Bible doesn't say believe in your mind, but believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. Because that which is from the heart affects my entire being. Therein is the will of the life.

It takes not only a purposing in my heart, but it also takes the power of the Holy Spirit within my life to keep this kind of a commitment. The Lord said it is not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. And it takes the power of the Holy Spirit to keep that kind of a commitment unto God. We remember Peter, who had set his mind that he would do certain things. The Lord was with his disciples the night he was betrayed, and he said to them, All of you are going to be offended tonight because of me. And Peter said, Lord, though they are all offended, I will never be offended. Notice the I will. Be careful of the I will. That's confidence in our flesh. That's setting your mind. I'm determined, Lord. I will never be offended. The Lord said, Peter, before the cock crows, you will have denied me three times. And Peter began to deny vehemently, saying, Lord, how can you say such a thing? If they would slay me, I would still not deny you. Jesus. Peter thought that he knew better about himself than the Lord did. That's always a mistake. God knows much better about me than I know about myself. And if ever you find yourself arguing with the Lord, just know you're wrong.

He knows so much better. He knows so much better about us than we know about ourselves. And so Jesus was brought before the high priest and the council. And Peter was standing outside warming himself by the fire. And a young maiden came up and said, Oh, aren't you one of his disciples? Nope. Don't know him. Pretty soon she came back and she said, I'm sure you're one of his disciples. I've seen you with him. Nope. Made a mistake, young lady. I don't know him. Just warming myself here by the fire. Pretty soon the soldiers said unto him, Surely you must be one of his disciples. You have an accent of the Galileans. Peter began to curse and swear and say, Hey, get off my case. I don't even know the man. And the rooster began to crow. And Jesus looked over at Peter.

Peter went out and wept bitterly. He had said in his mind, He had no, you know, I'll never deny you. But it wasn't a true confession. It was a true commitment of the heart. And it was lacking the power of the Spirit. Now 50 days, some 60 days later maybe, Peter is standing before this very crowd that condemned the Lord, the Sanhedrin. Now he's on trial.

And we read, But Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said, Ye men of Israel and you rulers, if we are called in question today concerning the deed done to this impotent man, judge ye. But he said, Be it known unto you that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye builders have said it not, it is by his name that this man is standing here before you whole, and neither is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name given among heaven whereby we must be saved. Oh, the boldness of Peter. And they saw the boldness of Peter. What's the difference? Peter filled with the Holy Spirit. It takes the power of the Holy Spirit to really have that kind of a character. A commitment to God. I may desire it. I may even decide on it. But without the empowering of the Holy Spirit, I can never implement it. But oh, thank God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, He can give me that which I do not have of myself, that power of complete and full commitment unto the Lord. Now what was the result of these young men and their commitment to God? Well, when they answered the king with these words, he was so furious.

He ordered the furnace to be heated seven times hotter than it had ever been heated before. And he ordered the strongest men of his army to bind them with ropes and to cast them alive into the burning, fiery furnace. And the heat from the furnace was so intense that these men who threw them in were burned to death. But then the visage of the king was changed as he looked into the burning, fiery furnace. He called his counselors. He said, Did we not put three men into the fire? And they said, Yes, sir, three men. He said, How is it that I see four walking around in the midst of the fire and the fourth looks like the Son of God?

They had declared the God that we serve is able to deliver us from your burning, fiery furnace. He said, He surely will deliver us from you. And even if he doesn't, we're still not going to bow. Notice that they went into the fire. God doesn't promise to spare us from the fire. It is a mistake to think that your Christian experience is going to be all pleasant and rosy. That God wants you to just live in a lap of luxury and that you'll never have any problems. There'll never be any testings. There'll never be any fire. No, not so. As a child of God, you're going to face all kinds of adversity. You're going to live as an alien in this world because you are alien to the things of the world. And thus the world will not understand you. And they'll persecute you and revile you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. It's going to be hard. It's going to be tough. You're going to face antagonism. You're going to be facing the fires. But the Lord will always be with you to walk with you. With you in the fire.

The fourth is like the Son of God. And the king called and said, Shadrach, Meshach, Bendigo, come out of there. And these three boys came walking out and all of the men, the princes, gathered around them and were looking at them, examining them, amazed because there wasn't a hair of their heads singed. There wasn't the smell of smoke upon their bodies. The only thing that burned were the ropes by which they bound them. And of course, O Nebuchadnezzar, great at proclamations, be it known, unto all of the kingdom, everywhere that there is no God in all the earth, like the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who is able to deliver from the burning fiery furnace. And I command that every man everywhere honors the gods, you know, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

Men of commitment find that God will deliver them from or by or through.

You just need to be totally committed to God. God, it doesn't matter. If I burn in the fire, fine, I'm yours. If you see me through the fire and bring me out, fine, God, I'm yours. Whatever you want, Lord, my life is in your hands. Whatever you bring, I accept. You can't stop that kind of commitment. And that's the kind of commitment that we need today, where I've so committed my life unto God that I'm able to accept whatever may cross my path because my life is in His hands. I've committed. I've committed it unto Him. And so there are many options that God might choose. It doesn't matter to me which one He chooses. I'm going to serve Him. I'm going to live for Him. I'm not going to bow to the world or to the things of the world or to the worldly patterns. I'm going to stand for God. And God will deliver me one way or another. It doesn't matter. As you go into the New Testament, you find many of them were burned in the fire. You find that Stephen was, you find that James was beheaded. As you go on into the church history, you find that Paul was beheaded. You find Peter was crucified upside down.

God didn't deliver them from these violent deaths of martyrdom.

But Jesus was standing with them there in each of the tests that they faced. That's the thing. He will stand with me and He will be with me in and through the fiery testing. If I've made my commitment to Him. And when I am so committed to God, it really doesn't matter. Whatever way He chooses, whatever He sees fit, I'm committed to God. My life is His. He can do with it what He pleases by what method He wishes to glorify Himself. As Paul said that Christ might be magnified in my body either by life or death. I could care less. I only want God to be magnified. Through my body. That's the kind of commitment that wins. That's the kind of commitment that God wants you to have through the power of the Holy Spirit.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QzkFdDlbCpA)