# 71 God's Tender Mercies, Psalm 56 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** oIAL23BA9Zc
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIAL23BA9Zc

In this 56th Psalm and the 9th verse, David declared, God is for me. It is important that we have right concepts of God. Unfortunately, most of the concepts that people have about God or the Word of God or Jesus Christ are concepts that they have learned from His enemies who really didn't know Him. Today, you have been exposed to a lot of ridicule of God and of the Word of God and of Jesus Christ, ridicule that has come from people who don't even know Him. If you really want to know about Jesus Christ, then you must turn to the New Testament and read the Gospels. Find out what those who were closest to Him and knew Him best thought about Him. If you really want to know about me, you should ask my wife or my kids. Really. There are a lot of people that say, Oh, Chuck Smith, well, he's this, this, and this. And they've never seen me. They don't even know me. They've only known that God has done a work here and they've got their opinions about me. But they don't really know me at all. But my wife knows me quite well. My kids know me. My kids know me quite well. Those that associate with me know me very well. They can tell you the truth. What I'm like in pressure, what I'm like when there are problems, what I'm like in all kinds of situations because they have seen me in every situation and they would be the most reliable witnesses of what I'm really like. Even so, the most reliable witnesses of what Jesus is really like would be, Matthew, Peter, John, these fellows that were with him during his life's ministry. These men that slept beside him at night. These men that walked with him down the road. These men that saw him in all kinds of situations. Who lived with him in a day and night kind of a situation for over three years. They're the ones that would really know what he's really like. You see, from the very beginning, Satan has, has been spreading pernicious lies about God, trying to create in the mind of man a wrong concept of God and unfortunately, he has been extremely successful. So that today, people really have false concepts of what God is really like. And they spread the false concepts of God but they really, really don't know the truth. When Satan came to Eve in the Garden of Eden, he began his work of deception as he sought to give to her a distorted concept of God. Has God said that you can eat of any tree that is in this garden? Yes, God told us we could eat of any tree except that one over there in the middle of the garden. And God said, God told us not to eat of it or we would die. And then Satan lied about the word of God. He said, Oh, you wouldn't die. Lying about God's word. Secondly, he began to challenge the fairness of God. You see, God doesn't want you to eat of that tree because he knows that if you do, you're gonna be just as wise as he is. You see, God doesn't want you to eat of that tree because he knows that if you do, you're gonna be just as wise as he is. Now, he doesn't want you to be as wise as he is. He isn't really fair or dealing fairly with you, Eve. And he's trying to keep you back from being as wise as he is. He's only trying to protect himself. And then Satan also suggested to her that God is just trying to keep you with his law from something that is really good. Oh, that fruit is delicious. That's the most delicious tree in the garden. It's really good. It's really good. And God, by his law, is just trying to hold you back from the good life, Eve. His laws are restraining. They're keeping you back from the good life. Now, I am amazed that after 6,000 years, Satan hasn't really changed his tactics one iota. He is still coming to men, lying to them, He is still coming to men, lying to them, He is still coming to men, lying to them, lying to them, lying to them, lying to them, lying to them, lying to them, about the Word of God, saying that God's Word isn't really true. You can't trust God's Word to be true. He is still saying that God is trying to keep you from the good life. God has set up these restrictions, but these restrictions are actually binding you and holding you back from really a good, happy, exciting life. And finally, and finally, he is suggesting that somehow, in it all, God is not really fair. That God is very unjust. Same things that he used against Eve, but I guess they were so successful there, he figures as long as you got a good thing going for you, stay with it. And unfortunately, men are still being deceived by these three basic lies of Satan. by these three basic lies of Satan. We hear today vicious attacks against the truth of God's Word. Men who are supposed to be scientists have perpetrated deliberate frauds and hoaxes, blatant lies, in order to promote a theory of evolution, and make everybody feel that if you don't believe it, you're some kind of a fool. That the Bible is not true, God did not really create man in his image. That man actually evolved from the image of an ape. And these men have perpetrated deliberate frauds upon society. They came up with the Java man. They said, here, we have finally found, this is absolute proof that man has evolved from a lower species. This is that missing link. And this is the transitional form. And all of the scientific textbooks at that time began to hell. The Java man has been discovered. The missing link is here. Finally, those who concocted this skull admitted that it was the skull of an ape. It was a hoax. But then they said, but the Piltdown man, this is the actual, this is the real missing link. We finally discovered it. We can link ourselves now with the animal, the animal kingdom in the Piltdown man. And then later they confessed that they took half of a jaw of an ape and another half of a man. But the jaw that they took of a man, they treated with acid and so forth to make it look like the other. And then they filed down the teeth to give them a certain shape and all. And they admitted that that thing was a real hoax. But then they found the really, truly honest and goodness Peking man. And this indeed was the missing link. And all of those that saw it testified and swore to the veracity of it, this indeed is it. But unfortunately, when they were asked to produce it, someone mysteriously stole it. And they haven't been able to find it since. And yet, you better believe them. Or how can you consider yourself really intelligent to think that God created the earth? How ridiculous. To think that God created man in His image. Why, goodness, don't you realize that God didn't create your eyes and set up that whole beautiful optic system and the nerves that transmit the pictures into your brain and the capacity to interpret them? In reality, what happened when you were in the stage of just about an amphibian and you were emerging out of the ooze, and you came into the light, the sun shone down upon the frontal part of your system, and as the sun beat down on you, it formed a freckle, which was sort of an irritation, but it kept irritating until it turned into an eye, and finally you were able to see your surroundings. And as you were wiggling, trying to locomote yourself, you scratched across some coral. You formed an abrasion, which turned into a wart, which became your legs. This is science. It is not intelligent to believe that God created man. God's word you can't really trust, hath God said. And despite the increasing evidence through the research of the DNA cell that is absolutely blowing evolution out of the water, the increasing evidence of the fallacy of the uniformitarianism foundation of evolution, these men still hold tightly to the rail of the sinking ship, denying that it's full of leaks. But it's going down. For a group of the world's greatest scientists gathered together in Europe a few years ago to determine whether or not there were extraterrestrial beings trying to make intelligent contact with the Earth. You know that we have listening posts set up all over the world. We're listening for voices from outer space. Signals, beeps, or whatever that might come in a rhythm that would indicate there's intelligent life somewhere out in the universe trying to communicate with other intelligent life. Do you know that we are sending and transmitting coded signals out into the universe in case there's someone out there listening that they'll know that they're not alone in the universe, that there's intelligent beings somewhere else? And this whole convention was called in Europe of the world's greatest leading scientists to determine whether or not there is indeed extraterrestrial beings trying to communicate with man here upon the planet Earth. Interestingly enough, the first paper that was presented to this group of scientists was a paper by which they sought to determine the chances that there are intelligent beings anywhere else in the universe. And this particular group of scientists happened to take the research in the DNA molecule, and they began to take all of the random factors necessary for the development of the first protein cell, the first DNA molecule, which they used to say the simple cell, but no more. It is extremely complex. In fact, it is so complex for the first cell to have come together through the random process to have the right sequence, the right chemicals at the right pressure and the right time and the right degrees. Feeding all of these variables into the computer, there's only one chance in 10 to the 136th power that it could ever happen. And if the world is only 6 billion years old, according to their estimates, there's only been 1 to 10 to the 17th power seconds in that length of time. So if you had billions of random chances going on every second for 6 billion years, you still wouldn't even have the first protein molecule or cell. The paper concluded it's impossible that life exists anywhere else in the universe. But if 2 and 2 equals 4, if it's impossible that life exists anywhere else in the universe, then it's also impossible that life exists here. I've got news for you folks. You don't exist. And yet I'm here. And not by accident. But God's word tells me that I am here because God created me in his likeness and after his image. And though men may dream up all kinds of fanciful tales, I don't have enough faith to believe their tales. My faith is very simple. I find it very easy to believe in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. It's much easier to believe than all of the fanciful stories that they have concocted and changed over and over again. How well Paul described them when he wrote to the church in Rome, chapter 1. And he said, Who, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, but their foolish hearts were darkened, and they became vain in their imaginations, and professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. One of the scientists in the evolutionary field was quoted recently as saying when faced with the evidence of the DNA molecule and faced with some of these total impossibilities, he said, Yes, but if we deny evolution, we have no other alternative but God. Well, if your case rested on something as tenuous as evolution, I'd sure look into the subject of God if I were you. You see, because there is a total absence of transitional forms in the fossil record, complete absence of any transitional forms, and any new form of evolution, there is no other way to explain the total absence of transitional forms. Finally, one of the professors at Stanford forced a professor to come up with a new theory by which he could explain the total absence of transitional forms in the fossil record. In other words, the reptiles gradually mutated into the birds. But all of these gradual mutations showed that they did evolve from the reptile to the bird. And because of the total lack of any evidence in the fossil stratus, he came up with what he called the hopeful monster theory. In reality, there wasn't a transitional change, but one day a snake laid an egg, and when it hatched, a bird flew out. Hey, no, that's what he's suggesting, a scientific fact. Because of the lack of transitional forms from the reptile to the bird. Now, you can believe that stuff if you want. Satan has been lying for a long time, saying, hey, you can't believe God. You know, believe this garbage. And because they did not want to retain God in their minds, God gave them over to reprobate minds that they would believe a lie rather than the truth. And that's exactly where they are. Satan also has been lying to people, suggesting that God is not fair. So often, I am asked questions, and the underlying thing behind the question is, God really isn't fair. People always ask me, but what about that fellow that lives way back in Africa who has never had a chance to hear about Jesus Christ? Would it be fair for God to send that man to hell? And the whole idea is, God, you see, is not fair. Well, first of all, I'm glad that you're interested in that man who has never had a chance to hear of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I hope you're doing something about getting the gospel message to him since you're so concerned about him. But secondly, I'm far more concerned about you than I am him, because I don't know what God's going to do to him, but I do know what God is going to do to those who have heard and rejected. Because God will judge us according to the light that we have. So you better start thinking about yourself and being more concerned about what God is going to do to you. Having known, having heard, you're responsible. I don't know what God's going to do with that native, but when I'm in heaven and he comes before the judgment seat of God and God judges him and God gives him his eternal disposition, I'm going to say, right on. That's so fair I can't believe it. Because I know that God is going to be absolutely fair. You see, Satan was suggesting, Eve, God really isn't fair with you. He's not being fair. He's not playing the cards straight. He's trying to keep you back, Eve, from being as wise as he is. And people come to me and they say, but if God is a God of love, then why do we have people starving in Cambodia? Why do we have children who are born without eyesight? Why do we have children born in a deformed state if God is a God of love? What is the subtle insinuation? God isn't fair. Because there's suffering in the world. Because there's pain. Because there's war. Because there are crimes. Because there are wars. Because there are crimes. But in reality, when God made the world, He gave it to man. But man rebelled against the order of God. Eve was deceived by Satan. She thought, God isn't fair. He's trying to hold back from me something that's good. I want to be as wise as God. And listening to the distorted view of God from Satan, she ate the fruit. And when she did, she introduced that rebellion. That rebellion into the world against God. And man since has followed in that rebellion. And you see a world today that is still rebelling against the law of God. And we are now reaping after generations the inevitable consequences of that rebellion. But Satan is like the smart politician who makes a mess of things and then tries to blame the opposition for the mess. And so Satan, in ruling over the world for 6,000 years, has made a total mess of it. And now he's trying to blame God for the mess. How would God allow? When in reality, God has allowed men to go on in his rebellion and said, alright, if that's what you want, go at it. But you're going to suffer the consequences. And now that we're suffering the consequences, we try to blame God for those inevitable consequences that He said would come. For He said, when you eat it, you're going to die. This whole principle of death and its pain and everything else that surrounds it is the result of man's rebellion against God. But how inconsistent. God says something's going to happen, but I say I don't believe it, and I violate God. And then when it happens, I say, God, that isn't fair you allowed that to happen to me. How could a God of love let this take place? People often ask me, how could a God of love ever send a man to hell? Well, first of all, I hope you never find out. And secondly, God has never sent any man to hell. In fact, to be honest, God has done everything divinely possible to keep man out of hell, except violate man's own choice. He's done everything short of violating your choice to keep you out of hell. He sent His only begotten Son to die on the cross, to take away your sins, so you wouldn't have to go there. He sent His Holy Spirit to speak to you and say, hey, you're not doing right. Give your life over to me. Surrender your life to God and to point you the way, but you're ignoring, you won't listen. God doesn't send men to hell. They go there by their own stubborn rebellion and their own deliberate choice. If you end up in hell, you can't shake your fist at God and say, why did you send me here? You went there on your own deliberate choice, actually fighting. You're blaming God every step. But if you're dumb enough and stubborn enough, you can make it. But don't blame God when you arrive. Satan said to Eve, God's trying to keep you from the good life, Eve. It's good to eat. Look how beautiful it is. That's the good life. But God's laws are keeping you back from the excitement and the thrill of a good life. And Satan is still saying to you today, God's laws are trying to hold you back from the good life. When God said, keep your mind pure, he was just trying to keep you back from the good life of pornography, the excitement and the thrill you can get. He's trying to keep you from the euphoria, the euphoria of LSD or the euphoria of alcohol. He's trying to keep you from burning up your brain cells with alcohol. He's trying to keep you from the good life and the hallucinations that you can have if you just drop a few tabs. God's trying to hold you back. This is exciting. This is good. This is the life, you know. And God's trying to keep you back from the good life. His laws are restrictive. When God said, flee fornication, oh, he's just trying to, you know, make you live a very restrained and narrow kind of a life. He's trying to hold you back from all of the promiscuity and the joy and the excitement you can have in different kinds of relationships. When God said that sex should be reserved for that sacred, intimate relationship of just a husband and wife and should be reserved for the marriage and those who have made that vow, oh, God's just so narrow. He's just trying to hold you back from what is really exciting and good. God's trying to keep you from what is good. And then we see a society that is going to pieces. We see a society that is taking you back. We see a society that is tearing apart. We see a society that is sort of thumbed its nose, so to speak, at God's laws and said, don't hold me back from what's exciting and good. And we see men plunging down the road. And now we begin to see some of the sociological disasters around us. And we say, how could a God of love allow all of these sociological evils that are happening? How could a God of love allow genital herpes and all this kind of stuff? How foolish man is. How distorted are men when he understands concepts of God? Because he's been listening to God's enemy. He hasn't been listening to God. Now, the distorted views of God actually then create wrong responses to God. Because I have a distorted view of God, I somehow feel that God is against me. I somehow picture God as against my having any fun, against me really enjoying life. God wants me to become a monk and live, you know, behind some cloistered walls and spend my time in just meditation. Or God is like the KGB. He's got my room bugged just waiting for me to say some wrong thing so he can come in and put me in chains and send me off to Siberia to spend the rest of my life in solitary confinement. They picture God as standing over them with a club just waiting for a wrong thing so he can bash them into the ground. What a distorted view of God. In the Garden of Eden, when Adam disobeyed the command of God and brought this whole scene of sin into the world, and God came into the Garden and God said unto Adam, Adam, what have you done? That was not the voice of an arresting officer as he was putting the handcuffs on the victim ready to haul him off to prison. When God said, Adam, what have you done? That was the sob of a heartbroken father who could see what was introduced into the world and could see the disastrous consequences down through history that would come from the rebellion against the law of God. And the father's heart was broken for he could see the inevitable consequences of Adam's deed as it would be worked out in the history of man. You don't believe that? Turn to the New Testament and read there of Jesus as he had gone into the city of Jerusalem as the Messiah, the King. But he was rejected so that as he returned back standing on the Mount of Olives and looking over Jerusalem, he began to sob, he began to weep, and he said, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that stoned the prophets and all that God has sent to you, how often I would have gathered you together under my wings like a hen gathers her little chicks. How often I would have just covered you and protected you and sheltered you and had that close intimacy with you, but you would not. Oh, if you'd only known the things that belong to your peace in this your day, but they've been hid from your eyes. And he began to sob as he could see the desolation, as he could see the Roman troops ripping up those little children that were playing in the streets, as he could see the desolation that would be created when Titus came in. And he said, and your walls are going to be destroyed and your city is going to be torn down and your women are going to be ripped up, even those with child, and your children are going to be dashed in the streets. And he was sobbing and he was crying because he could see the result of their lost opportunity. He loved them. He loved them. But he could see that when their rejection of him, they were only inviting disaster upon themselves. And he sobbed. Not because I was rejected, I'm angry, I'm bitter, I'm upset, you reject me, I'll show you, kind of a thing. And tears of anger and vengeance, not at all. They were tears of sorrow and despair because he could look ahead and he could see what their folly, what God was leading them into. And I wonder how many times as he looks at us in our folly today, does he not sob when he sees the inevitable consequence of this little thing that I am feeling is so important for me. As I am being deceived concerning the truth. Because we have a distorted view of God, we feel we can't trust God. I dare not really just trust my life completely to God. And this is the subtle insinuation and suggestion of the positive confession and prosperity doctrines. That you just really can't say, God, your will be done. You better start telling God what you want, what you desire. And you start insisting that God give to you your desires and those things that you are wanting because if you say, God, your will be done, then that's a lack of faith and you just might get sick or you just might not drive a Mercedes. And because you want your flesh to have all of these wonderful things, you just get in and start insisting. You start confessing and whatever you confess, God's going to have to do for you. It's a distorted concept of God when I feel I can't trust Him to do what is the very best for my life and just commit my life to God and say, God, whatever, your will be done in my life. But really, let me tell you something, I don't want anything else than God's will for my life. I don't want it. Listen, I've messed up on so many judgments. I've made so many mistakes. I'd hate to be in charge of ordering the affairs of my life. I've often thought if God would come to me and say, look, you know, you did a pretty good job this week and we were just, you know, up there looking things over and, man, you really went back there and gave yourself, you know, 15 hours a day and we just thought we'd come down and give you a little reward. You just ask today whatever you want. Give you one wish. Whatever you desire, we're going to come through for you this week. And if God would say to me, make one wish, I've thought about that. I thought, what would I ask God for? And I finally determined that I'd say, well, God, why don't you just give me whatever you want to give me? Because, you see, I may be thinking, Lord, I could really use $5,000. But the Lord might be thinking, I'd like to give that kid $10 million. And why should I cut God short, you see? For what God desires for you is far better than anything you could ever think of for yourself. David said, God is thinking about me. If I should number the thoughts of God has concerning me, they are more than the sands of the sea. God's thinking about me all the time. But God said, my thoughts towards you are not evil, but they are good. A God who loves me, a God who is thinking of nothing but good thoughts about me, I'll tell you, I'm glad to trust in that kind of God and commit my life to Him that His will might be done in my life. And just live in total trust that whatever comes into my life, He has brought it there for His eternal purposes. Now, it is important that I have a right concept of God if I am going to really respond to God as I should. I cannot praise a God that I think that is against me. I cannot praise a God that I cannot trust. I cannot trust in a God who lies. Therefore, it is important that I have the right concepts of God in order that I might truly praise Him in order that I might really trust Him as I should. Now, in this Psalm, David declares, I will praise His word. Why? Because it's true. David said, why? He said, I will trust in Him. Why? Because He is true. David said, I will not be afraid what man will do. Why? Because God is going to take care of me. Because David said, God is for me. What a wonderful thing to know that God is for me. He's not against me. He's not standing over the club ready to wipe me out. God's for me. If I stumble, He's going to pick me up. If I do wrong, He's going to correct me and bring me back into the right path. God is for me. Paul the Apostle cried again in the New Testament, and if God be for us, who can be against us? That is why I will not fear what man might do or even what Satan might seek to do against me. And then David again said, I will praise Him. This glorious truth, God is for you, is really a truth for the children of God. The prophet said to Asa the king, God is with you as long as you're with Him. And if you seek Him, He will be found of you. But if you forsake Him, He will forsake you. God is for you if you are for Him, if you'll be with Him, if you'll walk with Him. But the hand of God is against the wicked. That is why it is so important that I commit my life to Jesus Christ in order that I might know the tender care and watchful care of a loving Father who will go to any extreme to see that I make it through as I trust in Him.

Shall we pray? Father, we're so thankful for Your love this morning. We're so thankful that You are for us and that You care for us and that we can just commit ourselves, Lord, completely into Your hands. We can just commit the affairs of our life unto You. Just live and walk in confidence, Lord, knowing that You're for us and that You care about us. Thank You, Father, for all that You've done through Jesus our Lord.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIAL23BA9Zc)