# 126 How Long Till The End, Daniel 12 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** EzqHdt9FUXA
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzqHdt9FUXA

This morning we'd like to draw your attention basically to the 12th chapter of the book of Daniel. As the Lord has been revealing to Daniel some of the events that are about to transpire,

Daniel asks the question, how long, O Lord, to the end?

As we read these declarations of God to Daniel concerning the things that are going to come, in verse 1, God tells Daniel that a period of trouble is going to come to the nation of Israel greater than it had ever experienced since its inception as a nation. Now, of all of the nations of the earth that have really experienced great trial, testings, hardships, it is the nation of Israel. As you read through the book of Judges, you read, of how many times the enemy nations came and conquered them and placed them under subjugation.

Then we read how that later on in their history, Assyria finally captured the northern kingdom and dispersed the people throughout the world. A little over a hundred years later, the Babylonians came and conquered the southern kingdom and conquered the northern kingdom. And carried them away captive to Babylon.

And for seventy years the land lay desolate. But then a remnant of the Jews returned. And they began to build again the temple, the walls of the city. But during this time they were plagued by the wars between the Egyptians and the Syrians. And their land was often invaded as the Syrians were invading the land. As the Syrians were invading the land. As the Syrians were invading the land. As the Syrians were invading the land. As the Syrians were moving towards Egypt, or as the Egyptians were moving towards the Syrians, they were sort of caught in the middle of this conflict. But finally in 68 AD, Titus, the Roman general, was dispersed to put down the rebellion in Israel against the Roman Empire. And he came with the Roman legions and bludgeoned the nation to death. And he came with the Roman legions and bludgeoned the nation to death. Various estimates of the number of people that were killed have been given by the historians. But several million of them killed by Titus and the Roman legions. And the rest dispersed into all of the world. But wherever they went they were persecuted and discriminated against. We read in history of the horrible Spanish Inquisition, and of course, in more recent history, they were persecuted and discriminated against. We read in history of the horrible Spanish Inquisition, and of course, in more recent years, they were struck by the terrible invasion of the Roman Empire. I'm not gonna lie to you. But as an example, the Roman legions and bludgeoned the nation to death. times Hitler's attempt to eradicate these people in the Holocaust and even to the present day these people are suffering persecution in areas such as Ethiopia where there is a planned extermination of 25,000 of them that remain in Ethiopia the persecution that they experience in Russia and in other places and yet the Lord said there's coming a time in which this nation will have a time of trouble greater than any time since it became a nation Jesus made reference to this very same thing when the disciples were asking him of the sign of his return to the earth he said and there shall be a great tribulation such as the world has never seen before or will ever see again now whenever we read of a great tribulation or we read of the time of trouble that will be greater than that any period in the history of man the question always comes up in a time of pain or suffering or tribulation how long is this thing gonna go on I am certain though it is just the theory of Einstein that time is relative, I'm certain that time is relative. Two weeks in a hospital bed can seem like eternity, whereas two weeks in Hawaii is but a moment. It's over so rapidly. Time is relative to your circumstances. If things are happy and good, time seems to pass so rapidly. But if you're in pain and suffering, time seems to drag on into an eternity. One of the first questions that is usually asked the doctor after the operation is, well, how long before I can go home? How long before I can become active again? I'm always interested, how long am I going to be in this state of pain or restricted activities? Because if I can see the end, it's always more comforting. If I know, well, yes, I may have this pain in my tooth for the next week, but then it's going to be over, all right, I can endure it for a week as long as I know there's an end. But if I think, man, am I going to have to have this thing the rest of my life, then it can be very discouraging indeed. And it is interesting how that whenever we have pain, somehow we always wonder, is this going to be here for the rest of my life? Oh, is this what growing old is? It's all about mine. I remember when I injured my knee playing football in college. I was on crutches. It seemed like forever. The pain was so bad, I thought, oh, am I going to have to have this the rest of my life? And as I would put my knee out trying to play in the future, you know, I thought, well, can I ever kick a football again? Forever, Lord? How long? And so when Daniel, heard the Lord telling about this time of great trouble, the greatest the nation had ever experienced, the natural question was, how long, oh, Lord, until the end? And first Daniel heard the question asked by someone else. And when the Lord gave the answer until a time, times and a half of a time, Daniel didn't understand it. And so Daniel himself repeated the question. He said, but Lord, how long? And because time, times and a half time was sort of ambiguous, the Lord gave him precisely the number of days. He said, from the time that the daily sacrifice is taken away and the abomination that makes desolate set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days. So he becomes very precise. And he's telling him how long, a thousand two hundred and ninety days. What does this all mean? What is the Lord talking about? First of all, I want to assure you that God wants you to understand it. When Jesus was referring to this passage of Scripture in Matthew's Gospel, chapter 24, the disciples questioned Lord, what will be the sign of your coming, the end of the age? Jesus said, and when you say, Jesus said, and when you say, God, we will bring you to the end of the age, Jesus said, and when you say, Jesus said, and when you say, God, we will bring you to the end of the age, Jesus said, and when you say, see the abomination of desolation that was spoken of by Daniel the prophet and then he said let him who reads understand the Lord wants you to understand he made reference to this passage in fact right in this passage itself the Lord declares but none of the wicked shall understand but the wise shall understand so you're in trouble if you go out of service today saying boy I sure didn't understand that message none of the wicked shall understand but the wise they shall understand as we go back in the book of Daniel we see where God revealed unto Daniel those empires that would rule the world beginning with the Babylonian empire beginning with the Babylonian empire and then the Babylonian empire and then the Babylonian empire which would be replaced by the Medo-Persian empire which would fall to the Grecian empire which would fall to the Roman empire out of the Roman empire there would emerge ultimately 10 nations that would be the final world dominating empire not one nation but an a federation of nations 10 kings pooling their powers and their resources they would arise from the Roman empire so they would be a part of the Western Europe nations and we find today federated together in Europe what is commonly called the European community 10 nations federated together that ideally fit the prophecy of Daniel we are then told that out of this federation of nations there is going to arise a leader who will come on the scene with talks of peace flattering words and he'll take power by flattery and by his peace plans but this man will reveal his colors as he begins to speak blasphemy against the God of heaven but this man will reveal his colors as he begins to speak blasphemy against the God of heaven we are told that this man will make a treaty with the nation Israel when he makes the treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the end at this point the world will enter into the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel presumes that the nation Israel will again be a nation we are told that this man will make a treaty with the nation Israel when he makes the treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel when he makes the treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel when he makes the treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel when he makes the treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel this will mark the beginning of the final seven years cycle of man's history of course the fact that he makes a treaty with the nation Israel this will mark We do not know that that is what the treaty allows. However, the temple is to be rebuilt and they will start sacrificing daily sacrifices in the temple once again, offering up the daily prayers and sacrifices. How long they will continue with the daily sacrifices and prayers, we do not know. But we do know that this leader that will arise out of Western Europe making the treaty with the nation Israel will, in three and a half years after the treaty is made, come to Israel and he will stand in the temple of God. Jesus said, when you see this abomination of desolation that Daniel was talking about, standing in the holy place, so he'll be standing in the holy of holies of the rebuilt temple. And Paul declares he is, sitting in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God and being worshipped as God. So this leader from Europe coming to Israel, standing in the holy of holies, declaring himself that he is God and demanding to be worshipped as God, stopping their daily sacrifices and prayers. From the day he does that, the scriptures tell us it will be 1,290 years. 1,290 days until the end. That is, until Jesus Christ comes with his church and sets his foot upon the Mount of Olives and establishes the glorious kingdom of God here on this planet Earth. Before God's kingdom is to be established, the Earth will have a period of 1,290 days, of great trouble, greater than the Earth has ever seen before or will ever see again. For when this man commits the ultimate blasphemy and sacrilege against God, it is the abomination that causes desolation because God is going to pour forth his wrath upon the Earth at that time. 1,290 days. In Revelation, chapter 6 through chapter 18, the Lord has gone into great detail as he tells of the cataclysmic judgments of God that will almost decimate the population of the Earth during this period of 1,290 days. The tremendous earthquakes, tidal waves, plagues, pestilences, hailstones, the size of 50, 60, 70 pounds. And God speaks of the desolation and devastation that will transpire upon the Earth as the Earth experiences these cataclysmic upheavals. Mountains disappearing, geography changing, land masses being moved, continental shifts until the people, people hide in the rocks and in the mountains and they cry for them to fall on them to hide them from the face of the wrath of the Lamb of God. How long will the Earth endure this horrible devastation? 1,290 days. And then we'll bring the glorious coming of Jesus Christ, coming with his saints to, to rule and to reign over the Earth that has been purged by these judgments. Matthew's Gospel, chapter 25, as Jesus continued this same Olivet discourse in which he was telling of his coming, verse 31, when Jesus comes again, then will he gather together the nations for judgment and he will separate them as a shepherd separates, his sheep, from the goats. And it will be determined at that time which of those who have survived the cataclysm upon the Earth will be allowed to enter in to the kingdom age. To those on his right hand he'll say, come ye blessed of the Father, inherit the kingdom that was prepared for you from the foundations of the Earth. And to those on his left he will say, depart from me ye workers of iniquity into the everlasting judgment. That was prepared for Satan and his angels. It would appear that during, or this period of judgment will last for 45 days. For in the 12th chapter of Daniel we read, verse 12, and blessed is he who comes to the 1,335th day. That would be 45 days after the 1,290 which will bring the end of the tribulation and the return of Jesus Christ. And for the next 45 days the nations being judged and if a person survives the great tribulation and survives the judgment period and is still here at the 1,335th day he's in. Blessed is the man that makes it to the 1,335th day. That means he will have made it through the judgment period of Christ after the great judgment upon the earth. However, as the Lord began to tell Daniel about these events in chapter 12 the Lord made a very interesting statement to Daniel. He said, and at that time thy people shall be delivered. When Jesus was talking about these same cataclysmic events that were going to take place upon the earth in Luke's gospel chapter 21, he said, Pray ye always that you'll be accounted worthy to escape all these things. A time of great tribulation such as the world has never seen before or will ever see again. But pray that you'll be accounted worthy to escape all of these things and to be standing before the Son of Man. We would be able to know if we were still here upon the earth. When the final seven year countdown began because it will be marked by a treaty made with the leader of Western Europe with the nation of Israel. We would know precisely the day that Jesus would return if we were here when this same Western European leader came to the temple that was rebuilt in Jerusalem, stood in it and stopped the daily prayers and demanded to be worshipped as God. We would be able to then mark our calendar for 1,290 days of great tribulation. I do not believe that the church will be here for either of these events. In that day the Lord will deliver his people. In that day the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with the voice of the archangel and the trump of God. And we who are alive and remain will be caught up to meet the Lord in the air and so shall we ever be with the Lord. For God has not appointed us unto wrath according to Paul's writings to the Thessalonians. He has appointed us to the church and those in Rome. But of these days, Jesus said, Watch and be ready for in such an hour as you think not the Son of Man is coming. As I look at the world today I see the world in great turmoil. 1982 was a year or 1981 was a year of many crises and we are entering 1982 with a world that is beset by problems that are not yet solved. There is still a tremendous upheaval in the whole economic system of the world. There is still great uncertainty as regards to Poland. There are still the unresolved issues of the annexation of the Golan Heights. And the intensified pressures between Syria and Israel. There are still terrorists who are terrorizing the leaders of the world. There are still madmen with tremendous power. Power to plunge the world into war. There are so many uncertainties. There is only one certain thing and that is Jesus Christ is coming for his church. It is interesting to me and we'll cover tonight in much more detail. Limitation of time this morning makes us just have to skim. But getting into Daniel 9 through 12 so many fascinating things. But the Lord emphasizes, today I'm telling you what is happening and going to happen. I swear these things shall be. And God declares the truth of these things that were predicted. Now, as we look at these things predicted we find how absolutely true they were in the events that have already been fulfilled. And so we can confirm the truth by looking at history and seeing those events that were chronicled by Daniel. How they came to pass so literally, so completely. And it causes you to realize hey, God has not quit his program. God is still working and the work of God is still progressing bringing us out to this time that Daniel asked about what will be the end of these things. And we're moving towards the end. God has established the nation of Israel in the land. God has established a European community of nations. Whether or not they are yet in the final alignment of ten, we don't know. But God has at least established this European community. And so many things right down the line. And as the Lord said, let him that reads understand. It is important that you understand that your top priority in life should be your relationship with Jesus Christ. That should be the first priority of every one of you. Because the Lord will be coming soon for his church and they that are ready will enter in to the marriage feast of the Lamb. And if you don't enter in at that time then you will be here to see this cataclysmic judgment of God falling upon the earth. You won't want to be here. I don't want to be here. I am praying, as Jesus told me to, that I will be accounted worthy to escape it by my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I would encourage you to make that your prayer also.

Shall we pray? Thank you Father for the advance notices so that as we see the dilemma of the nations of the world, today, as we see these unresolved issues, as we enter into the uncertainties of 1982, our hearts need not to fail us for the fear of those things that are coming to pass upon the earth. Lord, we realize that what is transpiring is all a part of your plan that you have laid out in such intricate detail so that we would not be the children of darkness and be caught by surprise but we might walk in thy spirit and in the light of thy spirit understanding the things of which you have spoken. Now Lord, seal thy truth within our hearts and may we live and walk according to truth in Jesus' name. Amen.

For you, who are not certain about your relationship with God, for you who are a little shaky in your relationship with Jesus Christ, the world is so filled with uncertainty that's one thing you don't want to be uncertain about. I would surely go back to the prayer room and meet with one of the pastors and make sure before I left today that I know God and that my heart and life are right with Him. You can know that. That's all a part of God's plan for you. May the Lord be with you. May the Lord guide you and keep you this week. And may the Spirit of God just really impress upon your heart the absolute necessity of being led by the Spirit and walking after the Spirit and committing your life completely to the Lord. And may you thus make that commitment and then know the joy and the peace and the glory of walking in fellowship with Jesus our Lord.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzqHdt9FUXA)