# 144 In That Day, Zechariah 12:10 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** 3dil8W6DkTA
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3dil8W6DkTA

This morning chapter 12 verse 10 One of the key phrases of the last three chapters the final sort of prophecy or vision of Zachariah is the phrase in that day it would be very beneficial for you to When you read Zachariah this afternoon and you get to this last portion to underline all of the things that he tells you or underline the term in this day or in that day underline that phrase and that'll draw your attention to all of the things that will be transpiring when the Lord comes to establish his kingdom upon the earth in that day and in that day you find it repeated over and over again in these last three chapters and it is the key phrase that you want to watch for in this particular passage in chapter 12 verse 10 he tells us in that day verse 9 shall come to pass in that day he said I will pour out upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplications and they shall look on me and they shall look on me and they shall look on me and they shall look on me whom they have pierced and they shall mourn for him as one mourneth for his only son and shall be in bitterness for him as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn as we look at the history of mankind we realize how dark and bleak is the history of man the one outstanding characteristic of man that is created the darkness of the history is the greed that seems to prevail man basically is greedy he has desires many times beyond his own capacity to fulfill and thus springs wars fighting strife divisions as a person wants more than he has it would seem that in this enlightened age when science has brought to us so many marvelous innovative innovations and conveniences for living the man with his amassed knowledge the capacity is to obtain and to store which surely have enough knowledge enough wisdom that we could seek to find a better life without having to go to war and to fight one another to obtain. It would seem that we would advance beyond taking off our coats and rolling up our sleeves and slugging it out, either as an individual or a nation. Why can't man learn from his history? Why must fighting continue? Why is it that we can't learn that these things do not bring happiness? They do not bring real satisfaction. Instead of using our knowledge to avert war, it seems that we are using the knowledge of science to just develop more exotic ways of killing men. And this indeed is a tragic indictment against mankind. That we should be spending $170 billion in this next fiscal year for defense seems to me so tragic and so sad, for it is bankrupting. Again, I'm not opposed. I know the necessity. I know that if we do not, we'll be serving under a communist flag. This, you might say, is the cost of freedom. Because there are greedy men who would love to subjugate the entire world to their philosophy and to their way of thinking and to make men of the world their slaves. In order that they might indulge their own lust and their own greed. And so here we are. Greedy men bankrupting the world, bringing us to the brink of war, bringing us into war. When will men ever learn? Dark is our history. Dark is the history of the nation Israel. Of all of the nations of the world, this nation was favored by God above others. The nation of Israel was given, the law of God, the ordinances, the statutes, the oracles. They were given every advantage. Unto them God revealed the light and the understanding of himself. In order that they might carry that light to the world. As God gave to them the law, he said, now if you will walk in this law, if you will keep these statutes, if you will keep the law, then you will be able to live. And so God gave these ordinances. Then I will be your God. And I will bless you. And I will prosper you. And you will dwell safely in this land. And God tells them of all the benefits that they could enjoy by walking in fellowship with God. But God also warned, but if you forsake me, and if you forsake my commandments, and if you forsake my word, then I will forsake you. And you shall be driven from this land. And you shall be driven from this land. And you shall be driven from this land. And you shall be dispersed throughout the world. And you'll become a curse and a byword on the lips of all of the people. And God began to tell them all of the persecution and all the suffering that they would experience if they would turn away from the light that God had given to them. You see, it is always true that to whom much is given, much is required. And being so blessed and privileged as to receive from God so much, the responsibility was much greater upon them. And they failed to be responsible to the things of God. And because they turned from God and forsook God, those things that God declared would happen to them did indeed happen to them. And they have been perhaps the most cursed, the most persecuted group of people in the history of the world. You look at the history of the world. You look at the history of the world. You look at the history of the world. You look at the history of the world. You look at the history of the world. You look at the things that have happened. No other group has created such animosity against themselves as this group of people. God kept his word. Now, though the prophets warned them of those things that would take place if they forsook God and turned from him, yet each of the prophets seemed to see at the end of this long, dark tunnel, the light. That would be there. And they all looked through the period of darkness and they ended their prophecies, declaring the light that would come in the end time to these people and to the world. And so this passage in Zechariah is one of those passages. In fact, the last three chapters, Zechariah devotes to the light at the end. The hope towards which we move. And if it were not for this hope, if it were not that God promised that things were going to be better, that a day was going to come of blessing and restoration, then we would all be wise to find some remote South Pacific island and to immigrate because this present world is going to be a place of peace. And so this passage in Zechariah is one of those passages in the Bible that says that the world is on the brink of disaster. But God gives us a glorious hope for the future. Now, even though the nation Israel did forsake God, in spite of all of the warnings, they turned their backs upon God's provision for righteousness. And they sought to establish a righteousness based upon their own works, which God has always rejected. declaring that our righteousness is as filthy rags in his eyes.

Though theirs is the history of failure yet God never ceased to love, to care and to promise to restore. And here in Zechariah among the promises that God gives to them of course we have here in our text he has promised to pour out upon them the spirit of grace and of supplications. In chapter 13 verse 1 he promises to open a fountain to the house of David for sin and uncleanness. In chapter 14 he promises to come and to reign as the king over the earth. And he promises that in that day there will be these annual treks tours to Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. There with the Lord. The Feast of Tabernacles is significant in that it was a feast and is a feast that commemorates God's preservation of the Jewish people through the 40 years of wandering in the wilderness before they were able to come into the promised land. God had promised Abraham and David and to Jacob that he would give them the land in which they dwelt as an inheritance and to their seed. Jacob went down into Egypt and with his family and there they lived for 400 years until they had multiplied and had become a threat to the Egyptians and so the Egyptians decided to make slaves out of them. And as they were there in the bondage of slavery they cried unto the Lord and the Lord heard them. And he heard their cry and he sent Moses that he might lead them out of the slavery of Egypt into a glorious land that God had promised to their fathers that they might dwell there in safety a land that was well watered flowing with milk and honey. And so Moses led them out of Egypt and they journeyed towards the promised land until they had come to the borders but then gripped by fear and unbelief they turned back. And so began the 40 years of wandering in the wilderness but God did not forsake them. God miraculously providentially preserved them through the whole 40 years of wandering there in the wilderness. Now the Feast of Tabernacles was a feast commemorating God's providential care in keeping their fathers through the 40 years of wandering in the wilderness and so in order to help them celebrate this feast they build the little booths and then building and constructing these little booths beside their house in which they have to live during the eight days of the feast they leave enough room in the thatches the palm thatches on the ceiling they leave enough room that as they're lying there at night as they look up they can see the stars between the palm thatches and that as they lie there and look up at the stars reminds them that their fathers slept out under the stars for 40 years and yet survived. They leave enough space in the thatches that the wind can blow through and as they're lying there and the wind is blowing through they're reminded how that their fathers were ravaged by the elements for 40 years and yet God kept them and God brought them into the land that he promised to give to them. So it is a feast that is looking backwards. So it is a feast that is looking backwards. and looking at that time to the present. God preserved through the 40 years God kept his word we're dwelling in the land. But it is a feast that spiritually is significant because as each of the Old Testament feasts had their fulfillment in Jesus and the Passover lamb was only speaking of him who would be slain. and the Passover lamb was only speaking of him who would be slain. So man has existed in the bondage of corruption a slave to sin been roaming in the wilderness but God has promised a new day is coming a glorious kingdom. God has given to us a promised land when he is going to reign as king and Lord over the earth. and Lord over the earth. And one of these days the Lord is going to take us he's miraculously preserving us now through the power of the spirit but he's going to bring us into that promised age into that promised day and he's going to fulfill the promise as we enter into the glorious kingdom age. Now during the kingdom age we'll keep the feast of the tabernacles we'll go to Jerusalem to do it and we will be remembering then hey here we are this is it this is the kingdom. Oh bless the Lord. You know as we are there together in Jerusalem worshiping the Lord just rejoicing with a great conclave year after year there in Jerusalem at the feast of the tabernacles and we'll say oh the Lord kept his word he kept his promise isn't this glorious. God holds out to these people who had failed the hope of the future. It's so so great to me that when we fail God doesn't just cut us off. It's so so great to me that when we fail God doesn't just cut us off. It's so so great to me that when we fail God doesn't just cut us off. It's so so great to me that when we fail God doesn't just cut us off. God doesn't just give up and quit but he is so patient and so long suffering. And God says here in Zechariah as he speaks of the salvation that is to come to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem that that salvation will be accomplished through first of all a work of the spirit. God said and I will pour out my spirit of grace. God said and I will pour out my spirit of grace. God said and I will pour out my spirit of grace. And supplication upon them. And supplication upon them. And supplication upon them. At the present time At the present time At the present time the spirit of God is working among the spirit of God is working among the spirit of God is working among the Gentiles and blindness has the Gentiles and blindness has the Gentiles and blindness has happened to Israel in part happened to Israel in part happened to Israel in part until the fullness of Gentiles until the fullness of Gentiles until the fullness of Gentiles become in. become in. become in. Right now there's a veil over their Right now there's a veil over their Right now there's a veil over their face that they cannot see face that they cannot see face that they cannot see the truths of God. the truths of God. the truths of God. When they read even the law of Moses they do not understand it even as Moses had to put a veil over his face so that they could not see the glory because they could not behold to look upon the glory they could not stand to look upon the glory so Paul said a veil is over their face now when they read the law they don't understand but God's Spirit is going to work once again in a marvelous way upon these people in Joel the Lord said and I will pour out my spirit in the last days upon all flesh sons and daughters will prophesy and Joel foresees that glorious day when God's Spirit is again poured out upon these people now the result of the Lord's Spirit being poured out upon them it said and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced when the Spirit is poured out upon Israel the effect of it or what the Spirit is going to be doing is pointing them them to Jesus Christ and to the cross for there is still no salvation apart from the work of Jesus Christ upon the cross so the work of the spirit when God begins to work with Israel again will be pointing them to the crucified Lord and they shall look on me whom they have pierced and then the result of that work of the spirit will be the repentance as they begin to mourn as a woman who has lost her only son her firstborn son and God will work with them and Jesus will reign as king it is interesting as we note the way God brought his work of salvation to them it follows the pattern by which God brings his work of salvation to man in all generations you see the work of salvation is always a work of God's spirit within life and it is a work of God's spirit within life and it is a work of God's spirit within the heart or the life of an individual. No man can be saved apart from the work of God's Spirit in his life. Certainly no man can save himself. When Jesus was talking to the disciples of the difficulty of a rich man entering into the kingdom of heaven, in fact it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven, Peter said, Lord, who then can be saved? And Jesus said, with man it is impossible. Salvation is impossible as far as man is concerned. It takes a work of God's Holy Spirit and no man can be saved apart from a work of God's Holy Spirit in his life. It is the Spirit that convicts a man of his sin. It is the Spirit that shows man the cross of God. Jesus Christ, God's provision and God's answer for his sin. No man can come, Jesus said, except the Father draw him. And so God by his Holy Spirit draws men to his salvation. And unless God draws a person, he cannot come. And the work of the Holy Spirit is always pointing man to Jesus Christ. He's pointing man to the cross of Jesus Christ. And they shall look on me whom they have pierced. The Holy Spirit does not draw attention to himself.

Jesus said he will not testify of himself, but he will testify of me. And certainly the work of the Holy Spirit and the purpose of the work of the Holy Spirit isn't to draw attention to you, but it is to draw attention to the finished work of Jesus Christ and to point men to the cross. And that is the true work of the Spirit of God when he points to the cross and says, there is the answer for your sin. There is God's provision in order that you might have fellowship with God. And as the Holy Spirit points us to the cross, he makes us then keenly aware of our own implications, our own implication in the death of Jesus Christ. You see, it's only natural. I guess that we try and blame someone else for our problems. And the government becomes a good scapegoat. We can always blame the government or our wives. That's women. What do you expect? Adam said, Lord, the woman that you gave me to be my wife. Not my fault. Never my fault. And we're always so prone to project our guilt onto someone else. It's their fault. I don't know on this, you know, I don't know. I was just born in the wrong time. When I was a kid, they blamed everything on the kids. Now that I'm a parent, you know, they blame everything on the parents. I'm in a no-win situation. When I was growing up, it was all my fault. Now my kids say, my dad ate the sour grapes and my teeth are set on edge. You know, my dad's fault. We would like to blame someone else for what we are. But when the Holy Spirit is working, in our hearts and points us to the cross, I suddenly begin to realize my own responsibility in putting Jesus there. For he was wounded for my transgressions. He was bruised for my iniquities. And I begin to accept my own responsibility for the death of Jesus Christ. And I no longer try and blame the Jew. I no longer try and blame the Roman. I put the blame where it belongs on me. I'm guilty. It was my sin that put Jesus on the cross. He was there making reconciliation for me. And as I realize what my sin has done to him, the Spirit brings me to that place of repentance and mourning over my sinful state. God, how could I? God, I am sorry. God, be merciful to me. I am a sinner. And the Spirit brings me to the acknowledgement and to the confession of my own guilt and my own sin. And as Israel, I begin to mourn, weep before God for my sin and my failure that cost Jesus Christ such suffering and death. And then the Holy Spirit leads me to the throne. Where Jesus is sitting as king. And he brings me to the place of bowing my knee and kissing the scepter. Submitting my life to Jesus as king, as Lord. And in that day, the Lord shall be king over all the earth. And in that day, there will be one Lord and his name one. And so the Holy Spirit ultimately brings us to the throne. And in that day, there will be one Lord and his name one. And so the Holy Spirit ultimately brings us to the throne. And in that day, there will be one place of the submitting of our lives to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And then he begins to burst forth upon my soul the glorious hope of that future kingdom when the Lord our King shall reign and we will dwell with him in his kingdom forever. Oh, the glorious work of the Holy Spirit in our salvation. It is so important. For God's spirit to work in our lives. And if you can look at the suffering and death of Jesus Christ and not be moved, not feel any emotion, not be touched, that is because the spirit is not working at all in your heart and life. And if God's spirit is not working at all in your heart and life, then you're in big trouble. It may be that you have closed the door once too often. You see, there is a metaphysical law concerning the organs of our human body. And that is if you refuse to allow an organ of your body to function in its God-ordained manner, in time you will lose the capacity of that organ to function at all. If you put tape over your eyes and tape it tightly so that no light can penetrate unto the eye, leave that covering over your eye for a period of time and atrophy will take place. And you'll lose sight in the eye. You have not allowed the organ of the body to function in its God-ordained way. Atrophy, the loss by disuse. And if you refuse to allow your heart to submit to God, if you are constantly hardening your heart against the things of God, against the voice of the Spirit, atrophy can take place. You can lose the capacity. And you can actually come to the place where you can laugh and mock at spiritual things. That's why the scripture said, and today, if you hear his voice, don't harden your heart. God's Spirit is seeking to lead you to the cross of Jesus, that it might bring you to the life of God. So we pray. Father, we thank you for the work of your Holy Spirit in our lives today. That Spirit of grace and supplication, pointing out the crucified Lord, pointing out our sins that caused his death, pointing out the hope that all men can have through his death of eternal life in his kingdom. Lord, may we respond to the work of your Spirit within our hearts today. In Jesus' name, shall we stand?

God's Spirit is working in your heart today. Be thankful. Such may not always be the case because God said, my spirit will not always strive with man. God has sent his Spirit. And if you feel an awareness and guilt from your sin, from your failures, and you realize that you need to change, the Spirit of God is seeking to point you to the cross today, whereby God can bring those changes in your life. The Spirit of God would seek to draw you to the cross, that you might behold the price that God paid for your redemption. If God's Spirit is working in your heart, be thankful, but also be obedient. Respond to it. Don't harden your heart. You're a privileged person. God is dealing with you. And I would encourage you to take advantage of it. Go back to the prayer room. Meet with one of the pastors, and there, let the Spirit of God bring you to the cross. You'll never be sorry. Guaranteed. May the Lord be with you. Give you a good week. May the hand of the Lord just rest upon your life in a special way. May you experience the power of his Holy Spirit working in your heart. And may you be blessed of God as you walk in fellowship with him. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3dil8W6DkTA)