# 206 Keys to Faith, Romans 4:19-21 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** VSwTJ7SUKGM
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VSwTJ7SUKGM

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to the fourth chapter of Romans verses 19 through 21 as Paul here gives to us the keys to faith. Whenever any of the Bible writers wish to give a classic example of a person who believed God's promise or just had faith, they always point to Abraham. Abraham was called the father of the faith or those who would believe the promises of God. And Abraham believed God and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. And so his faith is always held up as an example of a man who believed and trusted in the word of God. Paul gives us a little insight into Abraham's faith. Here in Romans 4, beginning with verse 19, there are four keys to Abraham's faith. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body, now dead, when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong. Strong in the faith giving glory to God and being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able also to perform. The first key to Abraham's faith is that he did not consider his own body now dead, nor yet the dead's of Sarah's womb. That is, he did not but he did not consider his own body now dead, nor yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. he did not consider his own body now dead, nor yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. consider the human difficulties involved with his situation now in contrast that's the first thing i always consider when i'm faced with a problem or a situation the first thing i do is sort of measure that problem and i have three basic categories that i put my problems in simple difficult impossible now it's important for me to catalog my problems because i need to know how to pray and for my simple problems it only takes a simple prayer god take care of that thank you lord and and i don't have to really get into my prayer too too much when the problem is simple when i have a difficult problem then i have to get a little more into prayer oh lord i thank you that you are my god and you're the creator of the universe and now lord you know and i get a little bit more into prayer for difficult problems when i get into those impossible situations then that takes some real heavy duty praying you got to sort of sustain your voice now oh god you know and you got to really get into those because you know this is tough you see i so often make the mistake of carrying over my limitations to god if it's difficult for me then somehow i feel that it must be difficult for god if it's impossible for me then well i sure hope god can work in this but i'm not sure and i carry over my limitations to god that's wrong i should not do that when king asa came to the throne a huge number of ethiopians invaded the land he had just a small army and so he went to god and he said oh lord it is nothing for you to help whether a person be strong or weak help us oh god he realized that it didn't make any difference with god to be at a big army or a small army a strong army or a weak army if god is going to help it's just a small army and that's all that matters that's all i need god's help now my strength isn't involved the human factor isn't involved when god is involved you've got to eliminate the human factor and that abraham was able to do he eliminated the human factor he did not consider it because he was trusting the promise of god in his need and so the first key of faith his own body now dead nor yet the deadness of Sarah's womb secondly he staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief now whatever situation you might be facing today whatever difficulty or problem you might be having it is interesting God's Word is so rich and so full you can go into the Word of God and you'll find a promise that is just so appropriate to your present need God's covered all the bases there is nothing that has happened or will happen to you but what you cannot find a promise in God's Word that will apply to your situation that you can hang on to we sang this morning standing on the promises but I think that we probably in many cases should have sung staggering on the promises of Christ my king because so many times we find ourselves staggering at the promises of God well now Lord I know that you said you would help but I don't know that really applies to me you know yeah you can help others but I don't I'm not sure Lord and and we find ourselves staggering at the promises of God in the Old Testament we find examples of those who staggered at the promises of God and usually the staggering at the of God result from my trying to figure out how God can work this thing out. And when I can't figure out how God can work it out, though he said he's going to, I stagger because I don't know how he's going to do it. But the how isn't really my problem. God said he's going to do it. And I don't have to worry about how, because God has ways that I don't even know. God has resources that I know nothing about. When Jerram was the king of Israel, he did evil in the sight of the Lord. And he encouraged the people in the worship of Baal and other false gods. And there were many idols and iniquitous worship in Samaria. And so God allowed the Syrian king, Ben-Hadad, to invade the land. And he surrounded the city of Samaria, choking off all of the supplies so that the people within the city were slowly starving to death. The famine was so bad that they were selling the head of a donkey for 80 pieces of silver. Now, when you consider that Jesus was betrayed for 30 pieces of silver, three times that amount for a head of a donkey and I really don't know what you can eat off of the head of the donkey maybe boil it for soup or something but 80 pieces of silver for just the head of a donkey in fact things were so bad that they had begun cannibalistic practices to survive and so the king who had introduced or who had encouraged the people in their false worship when this problem came he began to blame God for the problem and blamed the prophet of God Elijah and he said God help me if I don't kill that Elijah and so he came down to the house of Elijah with the intention of killing him and he said oh I finally caught up with you you've been troubling Israel and Elishiel say you've got things wrong man you're the one that's troubled Israel by iniquity because they've evicted Elijah he's coming to En eigenlijk se THAT'S THE DOCTRINE AND HE SAID HE torn Samuel and Elihshiel up and he wonderful did Ambani the right man he had not he did or did I attracted or did He just did nothing nothing to do so he turned around and he let by introducing the worship of the false gods but don't worry by tomorrow at this time they'll be selling a bushel of fine flour for sixty five cents in the gate of samaria now the king's counselor the guy in whom he leaned standing next to the king began to mock if God would open the windows in heaven could such a thing be here's an amazing problem people are starving to death but tomorrow you'll be selling a bushel of fine flour for sixty five cents and in his mind he tried how could God do that maybe he goes around and opens up windows in heaven dumps flour all over the place and so he mocked the promise of God staggered at the promise of God you know how can God do it he staggered at the promise and so Elisha said hey fellow watch your mouth you'll see it but you won't eat it and so the next day when they found out that the camp of the Syrians was empty and the people went out and began to sack the camp of the Syrians sure enough as this counselor of the king stood in the gate watching the people he saw them selling a bushel of fine flour for sixty five cents but the people in their eagerness for the bargain trampled him to death he saw it he didn't eat it he staggered at the promises of God Abraham did not eat it he did not stagger at the promise of God he accepted the promise of God God had said to Abraham that your wife Sarah is going to conceive and have a son and Abraham believed God he didn't stagger at that promise because he didn't consider the human impossibility which humanly speaking was so at this point the third key to his faith is that being Pastoralist strong in the faith he gave glory to god he began to thank the lord for that son oh thank you lord oh what a blessing to have a boy my own son oh and how blessed sarah is going to be oh thank you father thank you father and should you happen to come up to abraham's tent and you see this elderly man sitting there in the tent just so happy just sort of bubbling whistling and just all right i love you lord you're so good to me and i say hey old man what are you so happy about my wife and i are going to have a son oh that's pretty unusual how old are you oh i'm about 100 years old well how many children will this make for you oh it'll be our first your first well how long you been married oh about 80 years or so well that that's interesting is your wife pregnant oh no not yet at this point you'd be prone to walk away and say well you know poor old fellow is senile but you know he's not hurting anybody he seems to be happy so let him go you know here he is giving glory to god before there is any evidence at all that god is going to be able to keep that promise all he has is the word of god the promise of god to him but on the basis of that promise he is there giving glory to god rejoicing in the lord just on the promise now we find it very easy to praise god when we begin to see evidence of the answer when we begin to see things happening oh all right looks like god's going to work oh boy you know when we become suffer so you say oh we're going to крحم and just come down in the world especially when we see the whole thing then come to pass you say oh thank you lord oh you're so good and and so we're prone to rejoice at that point but that isn't faith faith is rejoicing before there is any evidence whatsoever of the fulfillment several years ago when we were living in corona and jeff was still just a baby It wasn't able to support the family, and thus I had taken a job with Alpha Beta Markets in order to provide for the physical needs of the family.

And we received a call that my mother-in-law had died in Phoenix. And so we made arrangements with Alpha Beta, and we went on down to Phoenix. And it took us about two weeks to get all of the affairs cleaned up after her death. And so by the time we got back to Corona, I went in to Alpha Beta to check the schedule to see when I was to come in. And the manager said, well, Chuck, he said, before I can put you back to work, you've got to check with the union. You're overdue on your union dues. And so I went over to the union house to pay up my back dues that were overdue. And they said, well, you've been assessed a $50 fine for being late. I said, well, I don't have the $50. And they said, well, you can't go back to work until you pay the fine and catch up on the dues. I said, well, I can't pay the fine unless I'm working. They said, well, that's your problem. And they didn't have any sympathy for my situation. I told them when my mother died, I was out of state and all. But they said, well, you know, you have to come up with the money. So I was unable to work. And as a result, each day we found ourselves slipping just a little deeper into debt until it began to be like a heavy chain around me, just weighing me down.

And I was seriously contemplating leaving the ministry. But the Alpha Beta markets had made a very interesting offer to me of going into market management. I wouldn't have to belong to the union. They offered me a very attractive salary and opportunities. And going into marketing, the only requirement is that I leave the ministry and make marketing a career.

And one morning I got up early and I thought, you know, maybe I should just forget the ministry. It's just not making it, you know. And the church isn't growing. And here we are in debt and going deeper into debt every day. And I was just so discouraged. And I was just sort of complaining to God. Of all of my... Of all of my problems. And just thought, well, you know, I don't know. About 10 o'clock that morning, the phone rang. And the person on the other end of the line said, how you doing? I said, oh, great.

They said, well, we just called to let you know that we're sending you a check. We just put it in the mail. We sent it special delivery air mail, so you should get it tomorrow. It's for $425. I had totaled up my bills. That morning, they totaled up to $416. And I thought, out of debt. Oh, Lord, you're so good. Oh, thank you, Jesus. Oh, Lord, I love you, Lord. Oh, you're so good, Lord. And I was just so happy and praising God and rejoicing. And went out to the kitchen. I grabbed my wife and swung her around the kitchen. All right, we're going to be free of debt. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah, you know. And after about a half hour, when I began to settle, down a bit, the Lord began to speak to my heart. And the first thing the Lord spoke to my heart was, why are you so happy? I said, oh, Lord, you're too much. I thank you, Jesus. Oh, Lord, I love you. Oh, thank you, Lord. Oh, you're so good to me. And he spoke to my heart again. And he said, how do you know they're going to send that money? I said, come on, Lord, you've got to be kidding.

What do you mean, how would I know they're going to send the money? They called me on the phone. They told me it's already in the mail, special delivery air mail. Lord, these people, they're good people. I've known them for a long time. They're people of their word. I would trust their word any day, Lord.

And then he hit me.

He said, this morning when you got up and you were totaling your bills and you were so discouraged and you were complaining and griping and I had to listen to all your gut, you had my promise that I was going to supply all your needs. But he said, I didn't see you rejoicing, waltzing your wife around the kitchen, so happy and excited. Now you have the word of man that a check is on the way that will cover all your bills. Whose word is greater? I had to apologize to the Lord. I had to repent really for my attitude concerning his promise. You see, I was staggering at the promise of God. And my faith wasn't strong. Therefore, I wasn't giving glory to God. Now that I have some evidence, oh, bless you, Lord. Hallelujah. Hey, wait a minute. I should have been doing that when I just opened up the scripture to Philippians 4.13 and says, my God shall supply all of your needs according to his riches and glory. I should have said, all right, hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. It's all taken care of. You see, but I wasn't strong in the faith. The Lord was teaching me. He was teaching me to become stronger in the faith.

How many times have you staggered at Philippians 4.13? My God shall supply all of your needs according to his riches and glory. Have you ever staggered at that promise? I've staggered at that promise more than once. As I looked at my needs and I looked at my resources, I found myself staggering at that promise.

Now, what you need to do is take your situation, go through the word of God, find a promise that relates to that situation, and just begin to stand on that promise and begin to give thanks to the Lord. Begin to praise the Lord for his promise that he has given to you. Abraham, strong in the faith, gave glory to God. The fourth step, or key, was that he was fully persuaded that what God had promised, he was able also to perform. You see, here's the bottom line. Is God able to do it? Now, that all depends really, doesn't it, on your concept of God.

Now, if your concept of God is one that you've created in your own mind, if I were God, this is what I would do and this is how I would be and all, and if your concept of God is of your own creation or that you have created your own God, then I can assure you your concept of God is limited because you are limited.

And thus, your God may have difficulty as you have difficulty.

It may be tough as you see it tough. But if you believe in the God that has revealed himself in the Bible, then any talk of difficulty is absurd because he is the God who has created the universe, the heavens, the earth, everything that is in them. And as he said to Jeremiah, I am the Lord, there is nothing too hard for me. Really, there is nothing hard for him.

God doesn't measure things in simple, hard, difficult. Not with God. He is all-powerful. And so it is just as easy for God to help in a major crisis as it is in a minor crisis. It's just as easy for God to supply a million dollars, for you, as it is five cents.

You see, we don't see it that way. If I need a nickel, I'll go flip open the telephone things, you know, and maybe find a dime or something. God can supply it. You know, there's a telephone booth. Let's see if God supplied, you know. I need a dime. I need a million dollars. Oh, God, you know. That's tough. You know, God supply that. Hey, wait a minute. I'm carrying my limitations over to God, who is unlimited. Being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able to perform. God has not promised anything but what he isn't able to fulfill it.

Paul, in writing to the church of Ephesus after his prayer, said, Now unto him who is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that you could ask or think. God's able. To do far more than anything you can even think or ask of him. In Jude, he closes the little epistle by saying, Now unto him who is able to keep you from falling.

You've stumbled and fallen so many times. You think, oh, there's no way I can stand. Hey, wait a minute. He is able to keep you from falling. It's not your ability. It's God's ability. I've got to get my eyes off the problem. I've got to get my eyes on the Lord. So many times my vision is so limited because my problem is so close to me, I lose the perspective and I don't see the eternal power of God.

Nebuchadnezzar the king made a decree that at the sound of music, everyone was to bow before the great image that he had made of gold and placed in the plain of Dura. And so the day was set and the music sounded and all bowed except Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Three of the Hebrew boys brought captives and made governors by Nebuchadnezzar over the provinces of Babylon. And so it was reported to Nebuchadnezzar their failure to bow. So he called them in and he says, How is it that I hear that you fellows didn't bow when the music sounded? I'm going to give you one more chance and if you don't bow, you're going to be thrown into the burning fiery furnace. And what God is there that can deliver from the fiery furnace? And they answered him, O king, we're not even careful how we answer you in this matter. For the God that we serve is able to deliver us from your burning fiery furnace. They believed in the ability of God.

Those men who have really wrought a work for God are men who have believed in the ability of God. Abraham believed that what God promised, He was able also to perform. You see, I must never measure the problem by my ability to cope, by my ability to solve, by my ability to handle it.

I should measure it by God's ability to handle it. For He is the one that I am trusting in. His promise that He has made to me is where my trust is. My confidence lies. And thus, I must not consider the human aspects, my weakness and the greatness of this problem. I must not stagger at the promises of God because He's able to do whatever He has promised to do. There's no limit with God.

I need to just take that promise and start rejoicing and giving thanks and praise to God. Who has been so good to me as to make the promise to me in the first place.

Abraham, one day, was cradling a little boy in his arms and he looked down and he said, I'm going to call you laughter because it's a laugh that you should ever be born of Sarah and me. This is just, oh, I can't believe it. You know, and he had that son that God promised for God. He kept his word to Abraham, though it took a miracle. God will keep his word to you and one day you will see the reality as God fulfills that promise if you will just follow these keys of faith as did Abraham.

Shall we pray? Father, we thank you that you are trustworthy and that what you have promised you are able to perform. Forgive us, Lord, our staggering at the word and at the promises. Help us, Lord, that we might truly stand upon the promises in Jesus' name. Amen.

And now, application.

Take your situation this week that you're facing, the problems that you may have, those difficulties that lie in the path ahead. Take the word of God and get the promise that is right. Take the word of God and get the promise that is right. Take the word of God and get the promise that is right. Take the word of God and get the promise is appropriate and then appropriate start just praising or they all right lord here i have your word thank you and begin to give glory to god because surely to do exceeding abundantly above anything you get asker and made us this week fine in your life as through his ability you begin to stand where you've always stumbled as through his ability you begin to walk in real victory through his provisions you begin to see your needs god bless you as you grow in fee and as you exercise that day and as you begin to benefit from the fruit update through jesus christ

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VSwTJ7SUKGM)