# 196 Man After God's Heart, Acts 13:22 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** _M-nz--4Nzg
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_M-nz--4Nzg

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to the 13th chapter of the book of Acts, verse 22. In the 13th chapter of the book of Acts, Paul and Barnabas launched out on the first missionary endeavor of the church. They went to the island of Cyprus, passed through the island of Cyprus, and then they sailed over to Asia Minor, where they went on inland to Antioch of Pisidia. And it is now the Sabbath day, and so Paul and Barnabas headed off to the synagogue to worship God. There in the synagogue, after the reading of the scripture, the leader indicated to Paul that he might have opportunity to speak to the people, for Paul was a rabbi. And so Paul stood up, and he began to rehearse to them, very briefly, a history of their nation. And he spoke of how God, at the insistence of the people, had given a king to reign over them, even Saul. But how that God removed him, and then raised up David, of whom God testified that he was a man, after my own heart, who will do my will. To me, it is exciting that God should testify of a man, and that God's testimony of that man would be, I have found David, a man after my own heart, who will do my will. Many times, men testify of themselves. We usually don't pay too much attention to a man, who is testifying of himself. We say, oh, he's bragging again. And we realize that when a man testifies about himself, he is prone to exaggerate his testimony. He makes himself a little wiser, a little smarter, a little stronger than he actually was in the situation. And so we don't give that much credence to a man who testifies about himself. It's better, really, that someone else should testify of himself. It's better, really, that someone else should testify of himself. It's better, really, that someone else should testify of himself. That someone else should say those good things about you, than you say them about yourself. People are more prone to give heed when someone else is testifying of you. But even there, often there is that tendency to exaggerate, to expand from the truth. So often, when I am going to be the guest speaker at a banquet or saying something, banquet or some other function, I get totally embarrassed by the introductions as they try to impress the people on how good the speaker is going to be that night. And they begin to go on in these flowery introductions and I like to hide when they're making these kind of introductions. I actually begin to tremble because I think, oh, I'm not going to say anything that important that the people are going to be disappointed after this big introduction. Now it's actually more flowery than the speech I've got. But when God testifies of a man, you can be sure it's a true testimony. Now the interesting thing to me is that God's testimony of David was, I have found David a man. A man after my own heart. It seems rather strange to me that God would make that testimony of David because David was far from perfect. I would think that God would make that testimony of a man who lived a perfect life. Someone who had never done anything wrong. And I could understand God saying, hey, there's a man after my own heart. He's never sinned. He's never done anything wrong. But that's not the case. David was a sinner. He was guilty of terrible sins. Not the least being his adulterous relationship with Bathsheba and his endeavor to cover the sin by having her husband murdered. And in spite of this horrible sin, God would say of David, I have found in David a man after my own heart. But David was a man that God could not allow to build the temple. For David said, your hands are too bloody, David. I can't let you build the temple. And still God said, I have found David a man after my own heart. Which causes me to realize that even though I am far from sinless, I can still be a man after God's heart. God can still say of me, I have found, Chuck, a man after my own heart. I know how I desire that God does say that of me. I can't think of anything better that God could say of a man than I have found him to be a man after my own heart. David's value did not lie in the fact that he was a sinner. Right? Right. fact that he was sinless but it was his response to God when God brought his attention to his sin none of us are sinless but how do I react when God calls my sin to my attention when God called David sin to his attention David repented before the Lord when the Prophet Nathan came to him and said David there was a man in your kingdom very wealthy he had just huge flocks multitudes of servants and he lived next door to a very poor man who had only one lamb to his name and that lamb was like a pet he lived in the house where the man he ate his table and the rich man had company come and he ordered his servants to go next door and by force they took him by the leg and hanged him off but today he strikes his head it is straight took the one lamb from his neighbor and they killed it in order that he might feed his guest david became angry and he said that man will surely be put to death and nathan pointed his finger and said david you are the man god's blessed you you have all your heart could desire but you took your neighbor's wife you have sinned against the lord and david cried out have mercy upon me oh god according to the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgression for against thee and thee only have i sinned and done this horrible iniquity in thy sight and rather than offering excuses rather than giving out alibis rather than rebelling and say well i'll do what i please david repented before god for his sin and god said of him i have found in david a man after my own heart one who doesn't argue with god when he's faced with the reality of his own sin but a man who will submit to god and surrender in contrition and tears

this issue where god declared a man after his own heart is first brought up in the scriptures in first samuel chapter 13. the occasion is the command of god through samuel the prophet to saul to go down and to utterly wipe out the amalekites god ordered their complete extermination animals everything wiped them all out and so saul went down against the amalekites and god delivered them into his hands but when they saw some of the excellent cattle and sheep they did not put them to death oh those that were sickly and weak they hacked to pieces but the good cattle and sheep they kept alive and they brought them back alive with king agag and with samuel went out to meet saul saul said behold i have done all that the lord has commanded me and samuel said if you did everything the lord commanded you how is it that i hear the cattle lowing and the sheep bleeding and saul said oh well they were so healthy and beautiful i thought i would bring them back and we would offer this task to them who were beautiful i thought i would bring them back and we would offer this task to them who were immense and ready for it because saul said you're so pure where without a install i am i have no high trust in you to the young people because i am so sure of our beliefs or our lives and are forever in the good ways of if you happily engage with me contexts is it a consolation for samuel as in life you look living in the wilderness of christ and life brought to our god continues knowledge ability to bring your would offer them as sacrifices to God offering lame excuses when he's faced with his guilt and the Prophet Samuel said to obey is better than to sacrifice and to hearken unto God is better than the fat of rams you have rebelled against God and rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft and because you have rejected God from ruling over you God has now rejected you from ruling over his people for God is going to seek a man after his own heart who will do his will so the Prophet Samuel said to King Saul God is going to seek for a man who is after his heart who will do his will Saul had failed to do the will of God faced with that failure he sought to alibi I think it was Benjamin Franklin who said a man who is good at making excuses is seldom good for anything else how tragic when we are faced by God with our failures that we try to excuse than ourselves oh it goes way back doesn't it when Adam was faced by God in the Garden of Eden with his failure he said all the woman that you gave me to be my wife it's all her fault not my fault. God was searching for a man and later God said, and I found David. And so Paul here declares that God found David. God testified of David. I have found David, a man after my own heart who will do my will. We see that the man after God's heart is the man who is after the heart of God. The man who is seeking above everything else to please God by obeying the will of God. That's the bottom line of his life. What is the bottom line of your life? You see with Saul, the bottom line of his life was himself. When it came down to it, he was going to live to please himself. And that is so true of so many people. At the bottom line of his life, he was going to live to please himself. bottom line of their life is self and they're going to live for their own pleasure. I'll live to please myself or to suit myself. That man who lives for himself will never have God testify of him. He is a man after my own heart. But the man after God's heart is the man who is after the heart of God. David said as the heart pants after the water brooks so pants my soul after thee oh God. My soul thirsteth for God for the living God that I might stand in his presence. David was seeking after God with all of his heart. He was seeking after the will of God as the primary purpose of his life. And that man today who is seeking the will of God above everything else in his life is the man today of whom God testifies. I have found him to be a man after my own heart. What is the bottom line in your life? I can testify to you that in my own life the bottom line is I want to do the will of God above everything else. Now I fail. I'm far from perfect. And God has to correct me. And God does correct me. But I am glad for you. I am glad for that correction. I sometimes get involved in my own thing. I get excited over some project. I start getting into something and God will stop me and say, no, that's not what I want. And rather than arguing with God, the moment God stops me, I say, God, you know that down deep, the bottom line, I want to do your will above everything else. The greatest desire of my heart is that when that day does come and I stand face to face before Jesus Christ, I want him to look at me and say, well done. You've been a good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of the Lord. I want that above everything else. My life will have been wasted if at the end of the road I cannot hear these words of approbation. Oh, how I desire that God can say, of me, I have found him to be a man after my own heart. My desire is to do God's will above everything else. That's the bottom line. Now, being a man after God's own heart did not exempt David from trouble. All through the Psalms, David speaks of the troubles that he had. It seemed that David was constantly in trouble. And one time when his brother got after him, he said, what? But it seems so common for David to be in trouble. Like he had always done something.

Isn't it interesting that how often in trouble we think, oh, well, I must have really failed God because I've got so much trouble in my life. Surely if I were doing what God wanted me to do, I wouldn't have this trouble. God must not care for me at all or he wouldn't allow me to have this trouble. David, a man after God's own heart, was well acquainted with trouble. David had disappointments. Again, in those days of disappointment, so many times we feel, well, God has forsaken me. God doesn't care about me. God won't let me do this which I'm wanting to do. And after all, I want to do it for him. And David's greatest disappointment was on a project that he endeavored to do for the Lord. He said, I want to build God the most elaborate house in the world. It isn't right. Here I am. I'm dwelling in this beautiful palace and God is staying in the tent over there. I want to build a house for God that men will come to behold and to see the glory of the house that I build for God. And God said, David, it's good that it's in your heart to do that, but I can't let you build me the house because David, your hands are bloody. You've shed too much blood and thus I can't allow you to do it. And David's deep disappointment, and yet he was a man after God's heart. Being a man after God's own heart does not exempt me from sorrows. David experienced deep, deep sorrows. To be sure, most of them came from his failure. Because of this adulterous relationship with Bathsheba, God said to David,

the son that has been born shall die. And for days, David laid on the ground, not eating, not talking with anybody, but his face in the dirt, just crying out to God for his little boy, that he might be healed. But such was not to be. And the little boy died and David experienced the sorrow. But because of David's sin, it was a thin, unending你沒 Приreek especially the acupoint of this sin will throne you and Your Estoy Yi ,I've crossing over to... isés y akiți sık geen buscar, The soul will never depart from your house, finde adu l crushing grateomeooosly kauksom, when David was faced by the Prophet with his sin David said, David's head I have sinned before God. And the Prophet said your sins are forgiven, but David, the sword will never depart from your house, soldiers around him and move up towards Jerusalem to invade Jerusalem and to depose his father from the throne and to take over his father's place and David was driven from Jerusalem by his own son Absalom and was pursued by Absalom who sought to slay his father to establish himself upon the throne but in his pursuit of David Absalom himself was slain and when news comes to David of the death of his son Absalom we hear that lament oh my son Absalom my son my son would to God I could have died for thee Absalom my son you see David felt the responsibility for Absalom's death it was because of his pursuit of David Absalom himself was slain and when news comes to God because of David's sin that the sword will not depart from your family and so David was feeling the guilt no doubt when he received word Absalom has been slain he thought of his own sin again what he had done and he felt the responsibility I murdered my own son it's because of my guilt the sword will not depart from the family and he experienced the deep sorrow of the death of his son and he felt the responsibility of his own sin and he felt the of his son Absalom and the lamenting over him yes being a man after God's own heart does not exempt me from sorrow how many times in those places of sorrow we feel forsaken of God not so you can still be a man after God's heart and experience disappointment sorrows troubles but when you're a man after God's heart you learned to take these things you learn to accept these things because my desire is to do the will of God and that's the paramount issue in my life and because that is my desire I believe that God is working out his will in my life though it may be a painful process for me there is in the verse of that song more love to thee O Christ more love to thee hear thou the prayer of the Lord and the prayer of the Lord I make on bended knee there is one of those verses in the song of something about bring pain and sorrow and let pain do its work God oftentimes uses sorrow or disappointment to work in my life is perfect well but that's what I want I desire the will of God above everything else so let pain and sorrow do its work God I want your will and that man who is in my life who is in my life who is in my life who is in my life who is in my life who is so after the heart of God that man who is so seeking to do the will of God God looks down and he says I have found him to be a man after my own heart oh what a glorious testimony that God should make that testimony of a man would to God he could make it of me shall we pray father this morning let your spirit work in our hearts leading us to that place of total submission unto thy will that we might become men and women after the heart of God yielded surrendered Lord fully and completely to thy will forgive us for our rebellion no God may we just surrender now the issues of our lives unto you in Jesus name we sang the song have thine own way Lord have thine own way thou art the potter I'm the clay mold me and make me after thy will did you mean it from your heart or were it was it just words that you were reading out of a book or did you from your heart really mean that when you sang it is it really your desire today above everything else that God's will be done in your heart in your life is that a bottom line in your life it may not mean that you're perfect but way down underneath God I want your will to be done underneath of at all God behind it all the basic desire my life is to do your will can God say of you behold I have found Mike the man after my own heart who will do my will can he say behold I have found Mike I have found Max, a man after my own heart, who will do my will. Can he say, behold, I have found Bob, a man after my own heart, who will do my will.

Oh God, thy will be done in my life, through my life. Help me to be a man after your heart. And may this week be a week of commitment unto the Lord. And if you get off track a bit and God has to stop you, don't argue with him. Don't excuse or alibi yourself. Just say, sorry God, I want to be a man after your own heart. That God might say, and I have found Howard, a man after my own heart, who will do my will. Let it be, oh God, let it be, in Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_M-nz--4Nzg)