# 06 Our Great Fellowship, Genesis 22:1-14 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** SbhJV_jNzbk
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbhJV_jNzbk

Genesis chapter 22, beginning with verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt or prove Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of. This is a passage of Scripture that has created questions in the minds of many people because it seems so contrary from our concept of God. In fact, God strictly forbid. Human sacrifice, it was something that was common with many of the ancient religious systems. In fact, in almost every religious system, human sacrifice in the early part of it was a part of the whole religious system. But it was strictly forbidden by God in the law. How is it then that God would ask Abraham to offer his son as a burnt offering unto the Lord? To understand this fully, we must realize that this is actually a series of appearances of God to Abraham, where God was drawing Abraham into a full fellowship with himself. For you see, when God created man, the purpose of the creating of man was that God might have... Fellowship with man. God desires fellowship with you this morning. He is seeking to draw you into fellowship with himself. But there's one problem... that which breaks fellowship with God is sin. And all of us have been guilty and have sinned, and thus have experienced an alienation of that life of God and fellowship with God. but god is seeking to draw us back into full fellowship with himself and god was drawing out a man that through this man he might work his works now if you say well god was just creating a nation that it might be a special nation that god could bless you've missed what the scripture really says god wasn't drawing out abraham that through abraham he might create a nation god was drawing out abraham that through abraham he might bless not a nation but the whole world

through thy seed all the nations of the world shall be blessed and when god was drawing out abraham he wasn't just thinking of a jewish nation that he was going to establish but he was thinking of the blessing that he wanted to bring to all nations the blessings of fellowship with god that would be made possible through the seed of abraham

this is actually the seventh and the final appearance of god to abraham over a series of appearances the first appearance of god to abraham came when he was still in the earth the chaldees and later there at haran where he had paused until his father terah had died where god was calling abraham out of the land in which he was living and away from his family and he followed abraham and he believed that even before latin God had taken him away it would be a system of captured Gods of knowledge and s crisp clients which you they still heard about that's why he was opening the center to a land that god would show unto him and in the first appearance of God to abraham god was drawing abraham into the fellowship of the discontentment with god with the world's system as it was existing at that time discover another place. The old-fashioned revival hour quartet used to sing a song, O Lord, you know I have no friend like you. If heaven's not my home, then Lord, what will I do? The angels beckon me from heaven's open door, and I can't feel at home in this world anymore. And you know, when God begins to deal with you, to draw you into fellowship with himself, it usually begins with a discontentment with the world scene around you. You look at the paper, you see the things that are happening, you look at the events in the world today, and somehow you feel out of sorts with it. You think, man, I don't belong here.

You feel discontented with the present world order. You feel sort of out of place, a longing to find something different. Something else. Searching or reaching out. If you can feel at home in all of the filth and the corruption and the crud of this society, then God hasn't even begun in your life yet. But if you, in looking around, seeing the things that are happening, think, oh my, it's horrible. What's going on? Then it means that God has perhaps already begun his work of drawing you into fellowship with the discontentment of the present. The present world order. That's the beginning of fellowship with God. And so Abraham got out of that land and he came into the land. And God showed to him the land and said, Abraham, look at this land, because this is the land where I am going to fulfill my purposes. And so the second appearance of God to Abraham was after he had come into the land. And God began to show to him the land in which the purposes of God would be, fulfilled in this world.

And as he looked over the land, he built an altar unto the Lord. The next appearance of God to Abraham was when God came to him and he promised to him a son.

And in this, Abraham was brought into the fellowship with the patience of God.

God is so patient. I am so impatient. That so many times this... The scriptures must exhort me to have patience and to wait. As God works out his purposes and his plans, he never seems to be in a hurry. He is always so patient in his dealing with man as an individual and dealing with mankind.

And Abraham was brought into fellowship with the patience of God. As God declared to him what he was going to do, but then he just had to wait for God to do it. The next appearance was that strange experience where Abraham had taken these animals and cut them in two and laid the pieces out on the ground as a sacrifice before the Lord. And all day long he was driving away the vultures who were trying to come and eat them. And when the night came, there came upon Abraham a horror of the darkness, a great dread and fear of the darkness. And then he saw a lamp of fire that moved. Between the pieces of the sacrifice that he had laid out. And then God spoke unto Abraham and told him that his descendants were to go into the land of Egypt where they would be in bondage for 400 years and then God would bring them out again and establish them at that time in this land that he had promised to give to Abraham's seed. So Abraham was brought into fellowship with the Holy Spirit. That was the hope of God. There is going to be a period of darkness that is going to come. The people are going to be in bondage, heavy bondage but there is glory at the end. I'm going to bring them out. I'm going to then establish them in the land. And thus he was brought into the fellowship of the hope of God. As you see, beyond the dark hours, beyond the period of bondage, into that glorious unfolding of the promises of God. The next time God appeared to Abraham is where God revealed himself to Abraham as El Shaddai, the Almighty God, which was interpreted the all-sufficient God, where Abraham came into the realization of the sufficiency of God and the ability of God to work out all of his promises. And all of his plans. And he came into the fellowship of the trusting in God, that God was able. But this is the seventh now and the final appearance of God to Abraham. In this series, as God is drawing him into closer, more intimate fellowship. And finally now God said to Abraham, take now thy son, thine only son, into a land. Into a land. Into a land. Of Moriah, unto a mount that I will show you. Offer him as a burnt offering.

Here he was brought into the fellowship of the suffering of God. For you cannot really understand this particular passage, take now thine only son, whom thou lovest. It is interesting that this is the first time the word love is mentioned in the Bible. And yet it really is the theme of the Bible. But this is the first mention of love in the Bible. And it is interesting that the first mention of love in the Bible is not really the love of a mother for a child, which is an extremely deep love. Nor is it the love of a husband for his wife.

But it is the love of a father for his son.

Take now thy son.

Thine only son, whom thou lovest. Jesus said, the father loves me.

And yet, we need to put this verse beside another verse in the New Testament. Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, and offer him as a burnt offering.

Place that beside, for God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Take now thy son, thine only son, It is interesting, he wasn't Abraham's only son. Abraham had a son that was 14 years older than Isaac. The son of Hagar, the handmaiden. But as we have read the scripture, scripture we realize that hagar was not the wife of abraham but the mistress of abraham's wife

and the son ishmael that was born of hagar was not the son of promise he was the son of the flesh when it seemed that god was tearing too long and keeping his promise to give to sarah a son sarah came to abraham and said why don't you take my mistress looks like there's no way i'm going to bear you a son and it was really a lapse of faith and it was an endeavor by the flesh to help god do his work it should speak to us always of the futility and the foolishness of trying to do the work of god in the ability of our flesh because it does nothing but mess up god's plan

and yet how many times in churches are we exhorted to the works of the flesh in order to do the work of god but it is interesting to me that god does not even recognize the work of the flesh

he doesn't even recognize it take now thy son thine only son ignoring completely the work of the flesh that's sort of disappointing in a way i've done so many works for god in my flesh it's not like i'm going to think that god's not going to even recognize them but yet i am really sort of happy that god doesn't recognize the works of the flesh because i've done a lot of works in my flesh for which i am not at all happy and i'm glad that he doesn't even recognize the works of my flesh that to me is thrilling now at this point our narrative employs a hebrew figure of speech and as you read it beginning with verse 3 notice it begins with the verse with the word and and as you read the next couple of verses there notice in the next three verses how many times the word and is repeated this is known as in a figures as a figure of speech a type of grammar as a polysynaton which speaks of a continued actions and so we read and we'll emphasize the ends so that we get the feeling of it and abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him and isaac his son and claimed the wood for the burnt offering and rose up and went unto the place which god had told him notice how many times it was repeated this polysynaton which speaks of a sprouts white significantly bigger and they needed a person to know themselves Fortunately God this too was the reason for knows them that he came up from the dead as a Anton that is Noelle or the crash of which wasale to lips of his relevant Elohim for the sight and LS Мне In the way ofcamp Msic to understand Jesus Jesus when he was very close to him was no longer a pastor we realize that god indeed called him to offer his son and yet never intended that he would fulfill

the sacrifice that is by killing his son abraham and the servants they began to journey and the scriptures tell us that they journeyed for three days and after three days they had come to the place and abraham said to his servants you remain here and i and the lad will go and worship and come again now notice that in the greek the two verbs that are associated with i and the lad i and the lad will go and will come again we will go we will come the two verbs are both associated with nouns i and the lad here is abraham saying to the servants you wait here i and the lad are going to go we're going to worship and we're going to come again now somehow we have an ignomatic situation here where god has said to abraham offer your son as a burnt offering abraham's prepared to do it and yet he says to his servants i and the latter are going to go and will come again knowing that isaac was going to come back with him somehow some way in god's mysterious ways it was going to happen at this point he didn't know how god was going to do it but he had been brought into the fellowship of the trust of god god el shaddai the all-sufficient one and surely god is sufficient for this he's going to work it out because god had said to abraham through isaac shall thy seed be called isaac did not yet have any children he was not yet married in order that the seed be called through isaac isaac's got to be alive beyond this experience somehow some way so abraham believed that god was going to raise isaac from the dead now for three days he journeyed every time he looked at his son it was like looking at a dead man for isaac became dead in the mind of abraham the moment god said take now thy son thine only son whom thou lovest and offer him as a burnt offering on a mount that i will show to thee from that moment his son was dead in his mind abraham saddled the donkeys got the servants and they journeyed and every time he looked at isaac his heart probably was breaking because his son was dead in his mind and yet in his heart he was believing in the resurrection now this is interesting because paul tells us in first corinthians the 15th chapter the gospel that i preach unto you he said how that christ died according to the scriptures and was buried and rose again the third day according to the scriptures tell me where in the scriptures does it say that christ rose on the third day in the old testament scriptures because paul was referring to the old testament scriptures jesus made a reference to jonah as jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale so shall the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth and that might possibly be the reference that paul was thinking about but i think that paul was more probably thinking about this particular passage where isaac was dead for three days in the mind of his father and yet the whole while his father was believing in the resurrection believing that god was going to raise him from the dead if necessary hebrews the 11th chapter by faith abraham offered isaac as a sacrifice unto god believing that god would raise him from the dead to fulfill his promise for he had said through isaac shall thy seed be called and so they came to the mount and as they were approaching it isaac said to his dad hey dad here's the wood for the altar and here's the fire but where's the sacrifice you've forgotten something and there abraham offered this glorious prophecy god will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering look at that carefully he did not say god will provide a lamb for himself he said god will provide himself a lamb for an offering the prophecy that was fulfilled when jesus the lamb of god was offered as a sacrifice for the sins of man god was in christ reconciling the world to himself god offered himself a lamb for a burnt offering

and so they journeyed together to the mountain now at this point i don't want you to be confused by your pictures in your sunday school booklets because so often in our sunday school books we see the gray haired gray bearded big abraham holding the hand of a little child that looks to be five six seven years old as little abraham not so much as the boy he's going to have seven years old innocent Isaac is being taken up, not knowing what his dad has planned. At this point, Isaac was probably in his early or mid-twenties, and Abraham was clear on up, about 130 years old, so that Isaac, being in his prime of youth, could easily at this point have overpowered his dad, an old man that he was. When the dad started to lay him out on the altar, or built the altar, and said, okay, Isaac, you're it, lie down, he could have said, hey, wait a minute, dad, that's gone far enough, you see, and I, old man, I'm not going to do it. What's going on? And he could have easily have overpowered his father at that point. The very fact that he lay there on the altar showed that he was obedient to the will of the Father. It was a submission, a willing submission of his will to the Father, even as Jesus Christ, when Peter drew the sword and began to fight, Jesus said, put away your sword, Peter, don't you know, I could call 10,000 angels at this moment to deliver me out of their hands, but the cup that the Father hath given me to drink, shall I not drink of it?

Jesus, in going to the cross. The cross was obedient to the Father. He said, not my will, but thy will be done, and Jesus didn't have to go. It was his choice. He didn't have to submit to the will of the Father, but he did yield himself to the will of the Father in going to the cross to be the sacrifice for us.

He could have called 10,000 angels. He could have delivered himself. He said, no man takes my life from me. I give my life in obedience to the Father's will, and as Abraham raised the knife, God said, hold it, Abraham, that's far enough. Now I see that you are faithful and that you will not withhold anything from me. Behold, a ram is caught by its horns in the thicket. Take and offer it as a sacrifice, and Abraham took the ram and offered it as a sacrifice, and he called. He called the name of the place Jehovah-Jireh, which means the Lord will provide, and then they said, for in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. This was called the mount then of the Lord from then on. It was called by Abraham Jehovah-Jireh. God will provide. In the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. This indeed is very interesting. Because again, remember the name of the place was Mount Moriah. In 2 Chronicles, it says, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said, He said,

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbhJV_jNzbk)