# 11 Sinning Against God, Genesis 39:2 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** gfLoqlAo-84
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfLoqlAo-84

We'd like to draw your attention this morning to Genesis chapter 39, verse 2.

Joseph has been sold by his brothers to a slave train going to Egypt. In Egypt, he was put on the slave market and was purchased by one of the eunuchs in Pharaoh's cart, whose name was Potiphar. And Joseph now began to serve in the house of Potiphar as a slave when in verse 2 we read, And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. The Lord was with Joseph. It's interesting to me how that the Scripture, the Scriptures can oftentimes capsulize a person's life in just one sentence. The description of the man Joseph. In the New Testament, when Stephen was giving his defense before the elders in chapter 7, and in going through their history, when he comes to Joseph, he speaks of Joseph, and he said, For God was with him. The Lord was with Joseph. That's the testimony of the man. That's the story of the man's life. The Lord was with him. Saul, the Scripture capsulizes his life in one phrase. In fact, Saul uttered it. He said, Behold, I have played the fool. That's the story of the man's life. He spent his life playing the fool. Concerning Abraham, the Scripture says, And Abraham believed God. That's the story of Abraham's life. A life of faith and trusting in God. And it's all capsulated. Abraham believed God. It's neat how the Scriptures can just sort of capsulize a person's life in just one sentence. And Moses was a meek man. And the Lord was with Joseph. That's the story. The presence of the Lord with his life. How do you suppose the Lord would capsulize your life in one sentence? What one sentence could really tell your story? I'd hate to think, but yet, here it is, the story of the man's life, and the Lord was with Joseph. We see evidences of the Lord being with Joseph all the way through his life. The Lord was with him when he was a child growing up in the house of Jacob. Jacob had seen that there was something special about Joseph, and he was just sort of a special child there in the home. The Lord was with him. He started having dreams that had spiritual significance. The Lord was with him as a boy. The Lord was with him when he was sold as a slave. That's where the Scripture comes in here. It's when he starts his service in the house of Potiphar. And the Lord was with him. And thus he was made ruler over the house of Potiphar. In fact, he was so trusted that Potiphar put everything into his hands. He didn't even know what he had himself. He just trusted in Joseph to take care of things. Because he could see that the Lord was with Joseph. And thus he entrusted everything into his hands. The Lord was with Joseph when he was in temptation. Potiphar's wife became infatuated with Joseph. He was a very handsome young man in his early 20s. She became very infatuated with him. In fact, she had determined. She had just sort of set herself to conquer him. And daily she was pressuring him to go to bed with her.

She was an evil seductress. And really putting the pressure upon this young boy. Who really was in a position where he could have been easily tempted. Away from home. Away from roots. Young. Virile. And here's this gal daily. Putting the pressure on. Solomon said of these kind of women.

That they have caused many to fall. And the mighty have been their victims.

And yet Joseph was able to resist the temptation. Because the Lord was with him. How easy it would have been for him to have fallen into it. And yet as she was pressuring him. He said, how can I? Do this great wickedness. Others may do it. It may be common practice among the Egyptians. You may have conquered over many of the other servants. But how can I? I'm different. I'm a child of God. I'm not a child of the world. How can I? Do this great wickedness. Though it may be the mores of a society. Though it may be very common practice among others. Yet how can I? Do this great wickedness. The sequel to that is found in the New Testament. In the sixth chapter of Romans. Where Paul said, shall we sin freely. That grace may abound. God forbid. How can we. Who are dead to sin. Live any longer therein. You see there's a vast difference between me. And the average person in the world. Where it might be very common practice. At the office or at the job. Or wherever you mix with people. Fornication and adultery may be prevalent in our society today. Living together without marriage may be a very common practice in our society. But how can we. Who are dead to sin. Live any longer therein. There's a difference between the world and between me. Between the world and between you. If you are a child of God. And though it may be a worldly practice and common among the world. It cannot. Be practiced. Among us as Christians. How can I. Joseph said do this great wickedness. The consciousness of who he was. We need to have the consciousness of who we are. Children of God. Washed by the blood of Jesus Christ. From the pollution and the defilement of the world. How can we who are dead to sin. Live any longer therein. How can I do this great wickedness. He said and sin. Against God. Now he had the consciousness. That sin really is not against people. But it's against God. In the final analysis of sin. He didn't say how can I do this wickedness. And sin against your husband. It would have been. Against her husband. But in reality the sin is against God. David said in the psalm that we read. Against thee and thee only have I sinned. And done this great iniquity in thy sight. The recognition that sin is against God. I've done it against thee Lord.

He didn't say how can I do this great sin against you. And it would have been a sin against her also.

Now in our day and age. In looking at the whole scene. Had Joseph succumbed to her. Her seductions. We would have been very understanding. Concerning this young man.

In fact we would probably be understanding. Concerning her. Her husband being a eunuch. Not able to satisfy her sexual needs. We could say well after all. You know human. And we could probably understand her. Desire to seduce this young man. But yet when we put it in the light. Of God's word. And put it in relationship with God. How can I do this sin against God.

And so the consciousness of God. And the awareness that the Lord was with him. Was the thing that kept him. In that hour of temptation. The Lord was with him. When he was tempted.

The Lord was with him. When he fled from her presence. Because one day. When her husband had gone off on a trip. And there weren't any other people. And there weren't any other people. And there weren't any other servants in the house. She grabbed hold of him. And she says now's the time.

As though she were going to force now. Joseph to go to bed with her. But Joseph did the bravest thing he possibly could.

He freed himself from her grasp. Leaving his coat in her hand. And he ran from the house. That was the bravest thing he could do at that point. It would have been very easy at that point. Much easier. Much easier to just have gone in the bedroom with her. Rather than run. It took much more courage to run. Than it would have taken to just gone into the bedroom. And that would have been weakness.

That was the wisest thing that he could do under those circumstances. And sometimes you get in a place where the smartest thing you can do. Is just run as fast as you can. Paul said to Timothy. Flee youthful lust. Run Timothy. You find yourself beginning to slip. You find yourself being overcome by passions. Get out and run Timothy. Get away from it. The Lord was with him and he fled out of her presence. Even though he had to face the consequences of a woman scorned later on. The Lord was with him when he was then thrown in prison. When her husband came home she said. Ah this young Hebrew boy you brought in. He tried to rape me. Look here's his coat. And so he had Joseph thrown into prison. In Psalms 105 it says. And they put the fetters on his hands. And he was in the irons. Man about this point I think that you'd begin to think the Lord wasn't with you. It'd be like waking up in the Tijuana jail. With charges of murder or something you know. Down in Tijuana. Oh my. The end of the world you know. No one can intercede for me here. He's away. He's in the land of Egypt. Nobody. Really knows his family or anything else there. And who can help me now? I've been falsely charged. Here I'm in on a trumped up charge. And in these irons and in these fetters. And yet what does the scripture say concerning him? Look at verse 21. While he was in prison but the Lord was with Joseph. That was in those irons in the prison in Egypt. The Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy. And gave him favor. In the sight of the king. And the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph. The hand of all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there. He was the doer of it. And the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand. Because the Lord was with Joseph. Or with him. And that which he did. The Lord made it to prosper. So the Lord was with him even there in prison in Egypt. The Lord was. With him. Why? Because the Lord said. I'll never leave you. Or forsake you. The Lord was with him when he was brought before the Pharaoh. And the Pharaoh said I had this weird dream. And I saw these seven fat cows. And they were just grazing by the river. And there came up seven lean cows and ate them up. And I saw seven sheaves of corn bound together. And then I saw seven wilted blasted corn sheaves. That came up and they ate up the fat ones. And Joseph said the Lord has shown you. Things that are going to transpire. There are going to be seven years. In which the land is going to bring forth abundantly. And there's going to be bumper crops and all. But then there are going to be seven years of famine that will follow. And the famine will be so great. That it will eat up the abundance of the seven years. So you need to look out a wise man in Egypt. That he will build barns and granaries. Through the seven good years. And that he can store up the surpluses. So that when the lean years come. The people will be sustained. And it said and the Pharaoh said. Who in the land is wiser than you. In whom dwells the Spirit of God. The Lord was with him. The Spirit of God was dwelling in him. He recognized. The Pharaoh recognized. That the Holy Spirit of God is dwelling in this man. And the Lord was with him as he stood before the Pharaoh.

And thus he was placed. Second in command over all of Egypt. Because the Lord was with him.

But I want you to notice a few things about this story. Even though the Lord was with Joseph.

The Lord did not keep him from being hated by his brothers.

You know I think well the Lord's with me. Everything's going to be rosy. Everything's going to be fine. Man there's no problem. There's going to be just rose petals in my path. The Lord's with me you know. Walk the path of roses. Hey. You're apt to find there's a path of thorns instead of roses. The Lord's being with you doesn't guarantee. That you're not going to have problems. He was hated by his brothers. They were jealous of him. They were going to kill him. The Lord being with him. Did not keep him from being sold as a slave. The Lord being with him. Did not keep him from powerful temptation.

Even though the Lord was with him. He faced probably one of the strongest temptations. Anybody has ever had to face. Though the Lord was with him. It did not keep him from false accusations. Of this gal who. Once he ran from her presence. Hated him. Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. And when Joseph ran. The infatuation. Turned to. Scorn. And even though the Lord was with him. He wasn't protected from her false accusations. And from the false imprisonment.

His feet were hurting. In those chains. Those fetters. Somehow we've got some kind of a strange concept. That if the Lord is with us. We'll never have any trouble. We'll never have any problem. Everything is going to be smooth. Not so. The Lord being with you does not give you. Divine immunity from problems. From trials. From temptations. You're going to be facing things. Just like everybody else. God doesn't give us divine immunity from death. From sorrows. From grieving. From reverses. He doesn't promise immunity from those things. Though the Lord was with Joseph. The Lord did not keep him from disappointment. When he was in prison. The Pharaoh's butler and baker. Got in trouble with the Pharaoh. And the Pharaoh threw them both in the prison. Where Joseph was. And Joseph was the overseer of the prison by this time. And one morning. Going through the cells. He saw these two guys. And they were looking a little glum. And he says. What's the problem? How come you guys are looking glum today? They said. We had weird dreams last night. And they sort of trouble us. He said. Well what did you dream? And the butler said. Well I dreamed that. There was this grape vine. And it had these big beautiful luscious grapes on them. And I picked three of these grapes. And I pressed them into the cup of the Pharaoh. And I carried it to the Pharaoh. And he drank of it. Joseph said. Hey that's a good deal man. The Lord is showing you. That in three days. The Pharaoh is going to forgive you. And you're going to be back serving the Pharaoh again. Bringing him his cup once more. In three days. Hey. And when this happens. Put in a good word for me. Tell the Pharaoh. The man in prison has trumped up charges. Put in a good word for me. Would you? The baker. When he saw that the guy had a good interpretation. Oh I dreamed. He said. I dreamed that I had baked three cakes of bread. Or three loaves of bread for the king. And as I was carrying them on my head to the king. The birds came and ate them. Joseph said. Man you're in trouble. Three days. And the Pharaoh is going to have your head. You're going to get hung. Three days. The baker got hung. The butler was returned to his position. Of serving the Pharaoh. And it says. And the butler forgot Joseph. Here's my chance to get out of here. Tell the Pharaoh. Plead my cause. Put in a good word. But the butler forgot all about it. Disappointment. You see. The Lord was with Joseph. But it didn't spare him disappointment. What did the Lord's presence do for him? Well first of all. The Lord being with him. Kept him from sin. When it would have been so easy. To have succumbed. Because the Lord was with him. He had the power that he needed. To resist the temptation. He had the power to flee. From that place of temptation. The Lord being with him. Kept him free. From sinning. The Lord being with him. Caused him to see his adversity. In a totally new light. Later on. After his father died. His brother said. Oh boy. He's going to get us now. All of those dirty mean things. We did through him. Through the years. Now he's going to get it in. He's just been waiting for dad to die. Because he didn't want to do it. While dad was alive. But now that dad is gone. Boy we've had it. You know. And they came to Joseph. They were just shaking. They were just trembling. Oh please have mercy on us. You know. And they were just shaking before him. Because they knew. That it was in his power now. He could have just given the order. And they would have been all. Hauled off to chains. And Joseph said. Hey you guys. Don't think that I'm going to do any harm to you. I know that you meant it for evil. What you did to me. You intended it to be evil. But he said. God meant it for good. He saw the things that happened to his life. In a totally new light. In the light of God. And though those things that were done. Were intended for evil. God was working. Through the whole thing. His good plan. For Joseph's life. God meant it for good. And so it gave him. A whole new insight. To the life. And the things that happened. In his life. When he saw the hand of God. Behind it all. Working out the purposes of God. As Paul said. All things work together for good. To those who love God. And when the Lord is with you. It helps you. To take a whole different attitude. Towards the circumstances. Towards the temptations. Towards the problems. Towards the trials that you have. You see them in a whole new light. For you see that God is working. In all of these things. In order that he might work out. His good purpose. In your life. Because the Lord was with him. The Lord gave him victory. In the most adverse. Situations. And circumstances. While he was a slave. The Lord was with him. In prison. On false charges. The Lord was with him. And prospered him. As a slave. He became the head over the whole household. Governing everything within the household. In the prisoner. He became head over the whole prison. Governing all the other prisoners. Taking charge. Of the books and everything else in the prison. The Lord was with him. And the Lord blessed him. And took the most adverse circumstances. And made the best of them. Even as the Lord is with you. Can take you in the most adverse circumstances. And make the best out of the worst. When the Lord is with you. Because the Lord was with him. He prospered. The prosperity of God. Upon his life. Until he became. The ruler over Egypt. Second to Pharaoh. Paul the Apostle speaks. Of being more than conqueror. Through him that loves you. What is it to be more than conqueror? I know what it is to be a conqueror. I know what it is to have a great battle. And to come out victorious. And to be able to have the shout of victory. We won. What is it to be more than conqueror? It's to have the victory in the midst of the battle. It's to have the victory in the darkest night. It's as Paul and Silas. When they are in prison. And their backs are bleeding. They've been beaten. The guy didn't even wash them. Threw them in the dungeon. There's rats running around. It's stinky. It's foul. What are they doing? They're singing praises to the Lord in the midnight hour. That's being more than the conqueror. Because you cannot be conquered now by your circumstances. But you arise above anything that may come along. Because the Lord is with you. And you can be triumphant in the most adverse circumstances. The testimony of Joseph's life. The Lord was with him. Oh may that be the testimony of each of our lives. Oh that at the end of the road it might be written. Upon my tombstone the Lord was with him. What more could I want? What more could I ask? In 2 Chronicles about the 14th chapter. When Asa the king had gone out against the Ethiopians. And had conquered over them. As he was coming back from the war. Victorious. The prophet Azariah came out to him. And said the Lord is with you. While you'll be with him. And if you seek him he will be found of you. But if you forsake him. He will forsake you. There the prophet was expressing to the king. A basic law of God. The Lord is with you. If you'll just be with him. If you want him to be with you. If you'll just open your heart and life. The Lord will be with you. While you are with him. If you seek him. He will be found of you. God wants to be with you today. God wants to transform your lives. He wants to transform your circumstances. He wants to bring glory in that dark prison. He wants to bring hope. In the midst of those difficult circumstances. He wants to bring victory in that hour of temptation. And the Lord is with you. If you'll just be with him. Just give him a chance. Just open the door. Just ask the Lord to be with you. And Jesus said I'll never leave you. Or forsake you.

Shall we pray. Thank you Lord. That you're with us today. In the heavy trials.

In the heavy temptations. In those hard places. Where we've been misunderstood. We've been slandered. We've been betrayed. And yet Lord in it all. Through it all your hand was upon our lives. And you have brought us forth. Into victory. Into prosperity. Because you've been with us. Thank you Lord for your presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from us. In Jesus name we pray. Amen.

Shall we stand. David said yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. No matter what the circumstances may be. If the Lord is with me. I can face them. I can go through them. I will conquer them. I can do all things through Christ. Who strengthens me. There is not a temptation. There is not a problem. There is not a situation. That I cannot conquer. When I'm aware of the fact that the Lord is with me.

And you can have victory over every circumstance of life. If you'll just invite the Lord. To come on board. And to be with you. And he wants to. He wants to help you. The Lord is with you. If you'll just be with him. If you'd like to. Experience the presence of God in your life. Maybe you're really going through a heavy one. Maybe you feel like the Lord's forsaken you. Maybe you feel like man. It's just all downhill. I'm sliding into the pits. And there's no way out. Oh yes there is. The Lord will be with you in the pits. And I'll tell you. Just his presence makes such a difference. He can turn the darkest night. Into noonday brightness. By his presence. Joy for ashes. Joy for sorrow. The Lord is with you. If you'll be with him. I encourage you to go back to the prayer room. Pastors be back there to pray with you. And now may the Lord be with you this week. May he watch over you. May he keep you. May he strengthen you. May he make you more than conquer. May you be conscious of the Lord's presence. And may you walk with that confidence. The Lord's with me. I will not fear. May God give you. A beautiful prosperous week. Walking with him.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfLoqlAo-84)