# 159 The Word of Faith, Mark 3:1-3 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** jHsNSx8QReM
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHsNSx8QReM

Here in the third chapter of the Gospel of Mark, Mark sets for us a very interesting scene.

We are in the city of Capernaum. It is the Sabbath day, and we are sitting there in the synagogue. As we have looked around at the other worshipers, perhaps we have noticed that man in the synagogue that has a withered hand. And sort of instinctively we thank God for the fact that we have the capacity of using both of our hands. We may wonder how do you get dressed and how do you perform many of the normal functions of life when you have a blight like that. We might feel a little sympathy towards him as we see him seated among the worshipers. That Sabbath morning.

But suddenly there appears in the doorway of the synagogue a man, and as he enters into the synagogue, we note that all of the attention is now focused upon him. And as he stands there, we can see that among the Pharisees there is a definite agitation as they seem to be somehow related him to the man with a withered hand and so we see the scene that mark describes here in chapter 3 on that particular Sabbath day in the synagogue in Capernaum all of the people are now watching this man who has entered the room they are watching to see if he is going to do anything about the man with the withered hand they're watching to see if he will heal him on the Sabbath day in order that they might accuse him these Pharisees who were seeking to accuse Jesus of the violation of their Sabbath law were men who were self-appointed enforcers of the law these men sought to keep the law meticulous meticulously in fact they were so anxious to keep the outward aspects of the law so anxious to keep the letter of the law that they missed the spirit of the law completely these were the men that Jesus said would strain their wine in order that they would not swallow a net because it was unlawful to eat anything that had not been thoroughly bled and if a gnat should happen to get in your drink and you drink it and swallow the gnat then you were unkosher and you were unclean and you could not worship God that day because you were unclean you'd swallowed a gnat that had not been bled so they would strain for a gnat but they would swallow a camel these were the men who were paying tithes of their spice Gardens but they were committing the more important things of love and righteousness and judgment they were watching Jesus to see if he would heal the man on the Sabbath day that they might accuse him because according to their interpretation of the law it was not lawful lawful to heal on the Sabbath day now if you would come across a person who had say been gored by an ox and he was lying there bleeding to death you could take whatever measures necessary to stop his bleeding you could apply an a tourniquet to him however you dare not to wash the wound you dare not to put any salve upon it nor to bind it up or bandage it because that would be ministering towards the healing of the person and you had to wait till the Sabbath day was over before you could minister to the healing of anybody all you could do was save the life take what emergency measures were necessary just to save the life but you could do nothing towards healing until the Sabbath day was over God had given the law of the Sabbath and they gave it very simply he just said remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy six days shalt thou labor and do thy work but the seventh day is a day unto the Lord a holy day you're not to bear any burdens do any hard labor on the Sabbath day seems simple enough but man always seems to make more complex the simple things of God so they started interpreting what constitute what would constitute bearing a burden on the Sabbath day and actually some 60 volumes were written to interpret the law that God had given and sent 10 simple Commandments plus the Mishnah they're interpreting of the law and according to their interpretation they had determined that to heal on the Sabbath day would be to violate the Sabbath law they also determined in their interpretations that to use your false teeth on the Sabbath day constitutes bearing a burden and thus you could not wear your false teeth on the Sabbath day also if you had an artificial leg a wooden leg or something that would be to bear a burden so you could not use it on the Sabbath day now I guess at that time false eyelashes had not yet been developed so we don't have any interpretation on the false eyelashes so we don't really know whether or not that would constitute bearing a burden however some of them that I have seen I think would fall in that category I imagine the eyelids must get awfully heavy by the end of the day people so interested in the nitty picky things

they were just skipping completely the more important things so they were watching to see what he could do would do but the interesting thing to me is the fact that the enemies of Christ many times had a greater insight to him than did his own friends and disciples you see as Jesus came into the synagogue on that Sabbath day immediately in their minds they related Jesus to the man with the withered hand for instinctively they knew that Christ could not come into the presence of human weakness of a human blight without doing something about it instinctively they knew that Jesus would could be interested in this man's crippled condition. For that Jesus could never meet a crippled person without doing something to help that person. And so in their minds, they immediately associated Jesus with the man in the congregation who had the greatest need. How different that often is from our own concept of Jesus. As we come into the sanctuary, if we've had a particularly bad week, where we've really blown it, where we have failed so miserably once again, where we're so conscious of our own weakness, our own failure,

we look around and we see all of the shining beautiful faces and we think, Oh, the Lord surely is interested in ministering to all of those people. He's so interested in helping them and ministering, but surely He doesn't want to get around me. I've been such a mess all week. I even hated to be around myself this week. The Lord surely is not interested in me because my need is so great. And many times we sit here with the consciousness of the great need of our own lives, consciousness of our own failure, and we think, Oh, you know, the Lord isn't interested at all in me. I really feel like I shouldn't be here because of what I have done and all. And surely He has no interest, but I want to tell you something this morning. I don't know who you are or where you are. You this morning who sit here with the greatest need, you that have the greatest crippling in your life, you that have failed the most, I don't know who you are, but listen, I know that Jesus is here this morning and I know that He is more interested in you than anyone else. He said, They that are whole, need not the physician, but they that are sick. And Jesus said, Where two or more of you are gathered in my name, I will be there in the midst. So I know that Jesus is here this morning. And I know that as He has come, He's come to minister to that person who has the greatest need, that person whose life seems to be so crippled and so blighted. You're the one that He's come to touch. They watched Him. To see what He would do in order that they might accuse Him. Jesus didn't let them remain in suspense very long. He faced the issue immediately. He said to the man with the withered hand, Stand up. Fellas wondering what I'm gonna do? You won't have to wonder long. Stand up. And now the tension mounts. Is He gonna heal him? What will He do? What will He do? And Jesus asked them two questions first. Now the questions that He asked them were interesting questions because they revealed really the foolishness of their whole position. He said, Is it lawful on the Sabbath day to do good or to do evil? Now how could they possibly say it's lawful to do evil on the Sabbath day? It's never lawful to do evil. So they're stuck. You would have to say, Well, it's lawful to do good, wouldn't you? Well, to help a man who has a crippled condition, would that be good or evil? If you had the capacity to help a man who is in need and you don't help him, that's evil. To him who knows to do good and doesn't do it, to him it is sin. So the question that He asked was one that immediately, brought to light the foolishness of that position that they had taken, that tradition that they had that you could not heal on the Sabbath day. The second question was much the same. Is it lawful to heal or to kill on the Sabbath day? Man, never lawful to kill. So it must be lawful to heal. If it isn't lawful to destroy. And so they could not answer Him. They remained silent and it said, And He looked round about on them with anger. Now this is an emotion that we seldom relate to Jesus. So many times we read in the Scriptures over and over through the Gospels how that Jesus saw the multitudes and He looked upon them with compassion. And that's usually the emotion that we relate to Jesus. Love, compassion, tenderness. But He looked upon them with anger. Anger because they by their traditions would hold back the work of God for a needy life. They by their traditions would rather see this man remain a cripple than to be healed because it was the Sabbath day. And they through their religious blindness would hold back God's work that He was wanting to do to a crippled life. He looked upon them with anger. I wonder how the Lord looks at those today who by their theological prejudice would hold back the work that God is wanting to do for those that are sick and afflicted saying, Oh no, you shouldn't pray for the sick today. God hasn't healed since the time of the apostles. Our tradition and doctrine tells us so. And those who would hold back God's work today because miracles according to their doctrine ended at the apostolic age. Holding back what God would want to do in a person's life because it doesn't fit into our theology. He looked upon them with anger because they would seek to withhold God's work in a needy life. And then he turned to the man. As he did, I'm certain that his expression changed. And as that man looked into his eyes, I don't know if he had ever seen Jesus before, probably not, or he still wouldn't have had a withered hand. And as he looked into Jesus' eyes, I'm certain that he saw their infinite compassion and love, tenderness, a beauty. And Jesus said unto him, Stretch forth your hand. Wait a minute. The man's hand was withered. For Jesus to say stretch forth your hand, he is obviously commanding this man to do something that is impossible for him to do. He's making an impossible thing and he's making an impossible demand upon him. At this point, that man has one of two choices. One, he can argue with the command of Jesus. He can say, What do you mean stretch forth my hand? Can't you see it's withered? Do you think if I could stretch it forth, I'd be going around with the thing hanging by my side? And he could have argued with the command of Christ and told Jesus all of the reasons why he could not obey that command. He could have given the whole past history of his failures. He could have told the Lord how many times he had tried. Oh, how he wished he could. Oh, Lord, if you only knew how I wanted to. And he could lay out for Jesus all of the reasons why he would have to continue in his failure. Or, he could choose to obey the command of Jesus. And by choosing or willing to obey the command, he could discover the work that God was wanting to do in his life. He made a wise choice. He chose the second. He willed to obey the command of Jesus. Though it was impossible, yet his brain once more sent a message to the hand, move, stretch out. Now, when he willed to obey the command of Jesus, he made a glorious discovery. The moment he willed to obey the command, though it was an impossible command, in that very moment that he willed to obey it, all that was necessary to obey it was given to him, and he stretched forth his hand, and it became whole just like his other. Power. All that he needed. Capacity. All that he needed was given to him the moment he said, I will obey the impossible command. I'll do it. He did it. And he stretched it forth, and it was whole as the other. You this morning who are so very conscious of that crippled area of your life, that area where you have been defeated for so long, that area of your own personal blight, that area that has kept you from that victory in Jesus, that life of victory in him, Jesus is standing before you now and he's looking in your eyes, and Jesus is saying to you, now be delivered. Be set free. Be victorious. Be strong. Be healed. Stretch forth your hand. And as the Lord is commanding you to victory, to strength, to deliverance, you have two options. You can argue with his command. You can say, Oh, Lord, you don't know how I would long to be delivered. You don't know, Lord, how this has created such misery in my life and those around me. You don't know, Lord, how hard I've struggled and tried. You don't know, Lord. And you can go ahead and argue with him and tell him all of the reasons why you can't obey. You can say, Lord, it's impossible. Do you think I'd be in this shape if I wanted to be? God, I don't like this. I hate myself. Oh, God. And you can go ahead and argue with him over the impossibility of that command. Or, this morning, you can will to obey. You can say, I will be free. I will be strong. I will have victory. I will be healed. And you will discover that if you will just but will to obey the command of Jesus this morning, everything that you need, all of the power and capacity that you need, will immediately be given to you. And you'll be amazed yourself as you see yourself whole as he wants you to be whole. Now it becomes a very personal thing. It's just now between you and Jesus as he looks at the blighted area of your life and as he addresses himself to your need and he's saying to you right now, all right, be strong. Be healed. Be free. Live in victory. What are you going to do? By the grace of God and the help and the strength of Jesus Christ, I will conquer. I will be strong. I will not fall into that pit again. I will be free. In Jesus' name, I shall conquer. I'll do the impossible because he commanded me to do it. He will never command you to do anything but what he will not always give you the capacity to obey the command if you are only willing to do so. Remember that.

Shall we pray? Thank you, Lord, for helping us in those blighted areas of our lives where Satan has crippled us, held us captive, defeated us. In the name of Jesus, O Lord, we will obey your command. We will have victory. We will be free. We will conquer. We will overcome by the power of your Spirit, Lord. We will do it in Jesus' name. I realize that many of you came to the sanctuary this morning looking for help, determining to just sort of turn the whole mess over to the Lord and seek his help. You've made a very wise decision because that's what the gospel is all about, God's help for sinful man. And I'm glad you came. And I'm glad that you've made that decision. And I encourage you to go back to the prayer room and meet with one of the pastors and there stretch forth your hand. Find God's victory in your life today and go forth in the name of Jesus, victorious, a conqueror, more than a conqueror, as Paul said, through him who loves us. Don't live another day in defeat. Don't live another day with your crippling ailment. This day, right now, will to obey the command of Jesus, of being healed, being strong. May the Lord be with you and may you discover in your life this week that glorious capacity that God will give to you to be all that he wants you to be and to do that which he would have you to do. May you experience that power and that capacity beyond your own. And may you this week do the impossible that is what is otherwise impossible for you. And may this be the week of complete victory through Jesus as he sets you free and as he works in you. God bless you. May it just be a fabulous week of watching God work his marvelous work in your life as he conforms you into the image of Jesus, our Lord.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHsNSx8QReM)