# 33 The Fatal Flaw, Joshua 9:14 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** ncDbQQeGMMs
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncDbQQeGMMs

This morning we'd like you to turn with us to Joshua chapter 9 and in the 15th or 14th verse of this 9th chapter we read that the men took of their rituals and asked not counsel from the mouth of the Lord and thus they were led into an alliance, an ungodly alliance that was to later cause them problems. God told the children of Israel that when they came into this land that they were to utterly drive out the inhabitants of the land that they were not to make any covenants, alliances with the people within the land but they were to utterly drive out their enemies. Now the reason why God gave this order is that he knew that any covenant that they might make any alliance or agreement that they might make with the people in the land would in its long results have a debilitating effect upon them as a nation. For the Lord said that in time your daughters and your sons will be... be marrying their children and then they'll start to lead your children into idolatry into these other practices, into the worship of their gods and thus you will be cursed and your length of time in the land will be shortened. So there were not to be any ungodly alliances made with the inhabitants of the land. Now we often look at an alliance or a treaty. As a strengthening kind of a relationship. We feel that if we can get someone else to align themselves with us in a project that we then are actually in a strengthened position. Because if someone should attack us then they'll stand up for us and they'll help us. And if we have someone else that is standing beside us we feel so much stronger. And protected and thus we look at alliances as strengthening factors. There is an alliance that is a very strengthening factor and that is our alliance with the Lord. Jesus said come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Take my yoke upon you. And to be yoked together with the Lord is always a strengthening experience. It's always to me a very blessed thing to be yoked with Jesus Christ. Because he being the stronger is always pulling the bigger share of the load. And yoked together with Christ I need not concern myself with the difficulty of a task or whatever. I know that the Lord is able and is sufficient. But there is another yoke that we as Christians are to avoid. And that is told to us in 2nd Corinthians where we are warned. Be not unequally yoked together with an unbeliever. It is possible for you as a Christian to have an ungodly alliance. A yoke with an unbeliever that has as its net effect of tearing you down. For being yoked with an unbeliever they are a constant drain upon you. A constant pressure. A constant pulling down. And you are able to take it for so long but then you find yourself sort of pulled down by this unequal yoke. And that is the reason why God forbid these alliances with the people that were in the land. Lest by that alliance. Lest by that pressure you be pulled down. We should never create. Any kind of an alliance. That we cannot bring God into the relationship 100%. Unless God can be comfortable. In this agreement. Then we should not have any part of the agreement. Now there is often a tendency for us to feel that ours is an exceptional case. That ours is sort of unique. That the rules apply generally to everybody. But they really don't apply to us in this particular situation. And quite often we think that we can actually scorn the law of God and still be okay. Somehow the rule doesn't apply to this relationship because after all we are so deeply in love. That we can surely be yoked together. And love conquers everything. And love can conquer the spiritual differences that we may possess. And many times a young person will find themselves entering into a relationship. Where they become unequally yoked together in marriage to an unbeliever. Feeling that theirs is an exception. That their love will be able to conquer over this. And that the rule doesn't really apply to them. And about six months later we see them in the office. We hand them the box of Kleenex. As they relate to us the tragedy of the relationship. How that they have been pulled down. How that the pressure is so great. And we realize that God was right all along. There is an old Greek saying. The dice of the gods are loaded. By that the Greeks meant. That you really can't go against God's word and win. If you try to go against the word of God you are going to lose every time. And if God said be not unequally yoked together with an unbeliever. And you become unequally yoked with an unbeliever. You are going to get hurt. You are going to lose. You can't come out on top. And so God was warning them against these ungodly alliances. With the people within the land. Now have you ever sort of looked around and said. How in the world did I ever get in this mess? Many times I have done that. How did I get in this mess? The children of Israel were coming into the land. They had conquered Jericho. They had conquered Ai and Bethel. And Gibeon the next city on the route that they were taking. The men of the city got together and they said. Look these people there is no way that we can stand against them. They have already conquered Sihon and Og on the other side of the river. They have conquered Jericho and Ai. There is no way that we can stand against them. Our only hope is to make an alliance. An alliance with them. But they knew that these people weren't ready to make alliances with the people within the land. And so some of the older fellows got some worn out shoes. Sort of tied them on their feet. They put rags upon their bodies. They got some moldy old bread that they carried in their hands. Old wine skins that were wrapped up and broken. And so they came staggering into the camp of Israel. And they said where are the leaders? And so they brought them to Joshua. And they said oh we've come from a far country. But we have heard your fame is spread abroad. How that God is with you. And we have come to make a covenant with you. A peace treaty. We want to be aligned with you because it's obvious that God is with you. Joshua said how do we know that you're not from just among the cities round about. And they said oh listen when we left home this bread was hot in our hands. But look at it now all moldy. Our shoes were brand new. Look how worn out they are. These clothes that we're wearing were fresh brand new clothes. And now they're tattered and worn out. Oh because we've come from such a long way. And at this point our text. And they took of their rituals. And did not seek counsel from the Lord. And they made this agreement. Satan is always seeking to bring you into a compromise. To bring you into some kind of a treaty or agreement. And we need to realize that the enemy that we face is very crafty and very cunning. He is the master. The master of deceit. The truth means nothing to him. It is difficult for us as Christians to really deal with Satan. Because he plays by a whole different set of rules. Rules in which there is no honor. No recognition for truth. No respect for it. But he has one goal and one purpose. And that is to draw you into an alliance. By which you can be weakened. By which your strength can be sapped away. By which ultimately you will fall. Now it points up the importance of us. Taking God into account and into consideration. Before any decision no matter how large or how small. Or how obvious the answer may appear. Now the children of Israel were deceived. Because they didn't inquire of the Lord. For guidance and for wisdom. It seems so obvious. Look at those worn out shoes. Look at that moldy bread. No doubt they have come a long way. And by not inquiring of God. They created the alliance. That became a real bane to them. A real bane to them in years to come. Joshua as the leader of the children of Israel. Made two mistakes. At the beginning of his leadership. Both of them involved the same cause. The failure to seek the guidance of God. When they had conquered Jericho. Some of the men went up and looked at Ai. They came back to Joshua. Said it's just a little town. Nothing much to it. Just send a couple of thousand of us up there. And we'll take it and bring back the treasures of war. So Joshua just sent a small contingent. A couple thousand men up to take Ai. And the men of Ai came out against them. And the men of Israel were actually defeated by Ai. They came running back to Joshua in fear. 36 of them had fallen in battle. And the rest had retreated. And Joshua fell on his face before God. And cried out unto the Lord and said, Oh God. What are you doing to us? When our enemies heard that we have turned our back to the enemy. Then they're all going to come against us. They're going to wipe us out. Lord it would have been better off if we had stayed on the other side of the Jordan River. God what's going on? How did we get in this mess? God said stand up on your feet. Why are you crying unto me?

If everything was alright. Then you would have had the victory. But there is sin in the camp. They've taken of the accursed thing. Now what God is saying is Joshua. Had you prayed in the beginning. You would have never gotten into the mess. So true. Of so many messes in which we find ourselves. Had we been praying and seeking the guidance of God. We would have never gotten into the situation to begin with. There is that song. What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. But the song goes on. And it says. Oh what peace we often forfeit. Oh what needless pain we bear. All because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. And I think of the needless pain. That we bear. I think of the needless experiences that we have. Just because we didn't take the matter. Before God in prayer. And seek his guidance and his counsel. Before we plunged into it. Oh but it seems like such a good investment. Oh well how can you lose. And so we plunge. Because we are just taking stock. Of the obvious things. That I can see before me. It looks so right. I don't need to bother God with this one. It's obvious that this is the right move. And I jump into it. And then I wonder. Oh Lord how did I ever get. Why did you allow me Lord to get into this. You know. So the second mistake was made. By the same cause as the first mistake. When the men of Gibeon came. To make the agreement. Taking stock of their vituals. Just looking over. The moldy bread and so forth. They entered into this alliance. That was against God's will. Now surely this story has. Many important lessons. For us. That we need to learn. It teaches us that we need to inquire of the Lord. For every decision that we make. In Proverbs. Proverbs we read. Trust in the Lord. With all your heart. And lean not. To your own understanding. You may think that you've got it figured out. You may think that you have figured all the angles. You may think that you don't need. The guidance or the counsel of God. For this particular situation. You're wrong. In all thy ways. I acknowledge him. The lesson. That we need to learn from this. Is that. The little problems. Are often more dangerous than the big problems of life. When I am faced with a big problem. A heavy situation. I know wow there's no way I can get out of this. I better seek God's help. I better really pray on this. It becomes no problem. Because I've taken God into consideration. I'm seeking now God's help and God's guidance. So the big problems I just come off really great. It's the little problems where I get messed up. Because I think oh I can handle this. You know there's no problem at all. I can take care of this. And I don't seek the wisdom of God. I don't take it before God in prayer. I'm not looking for the guidance of God. And I plunge into it. Without the counsel of God. And that's where I get into trouble. Is when I move. Before I have been led of God to move. It teaches me. That I should never enter into any alliance. In which I cannot take God. Into that alliance. Totally. If in this relationship. We can't begin the day by praying. And asking God's guidance. Because they might be offended. Then I have no business being. In an alliance with them. I'm in an unequal yoke. It can only have. A debilitating effect upon me. It's a mistake. To venture out. Into any project. Without first seeking. The guidance and the counsel. Of God. To be yoked. With the world. Is to enter into a weakening. Experience. To be yoked. With Jesus Christ. Is a strengthening. Experience.

Shall we pray. Lord we're so thankful. That we can be yoked with thee. To do thy work. Help us Lord. That we might learn. Our lessons well. And that we will not venture. Into any endeavor. Apart. From seeking your guidance. Your blessing. Lord as we begin the new year. Take us by the hand. And lead us Lord. In thy path of righteousness. For thy sake. Amen.

Shall we stand. May the Lord be with you. And strengthen you. And guide you. By his loving counsels. That you might walk. In a way that is pleasing. Unto him. Now. I'm well aware of the fact. That some of you. As you look at yourselves today. Realize that you have. You're actually. Caught. You're snared. In an ungodly. Alliance. You're in it. You don't know what to do. I pray that. God might deliver you. From those alliances. That. Would tear you down. And that you might find. Your heart. And life. Totally. Allied. With Jesus Christ. It all begins. By submitting. Your life. To him. You know. I wouldn't. Want to face. Another year. Apart. From Jesus Christ. The worsening. Economic. Crisis. The worsening. Energy. Crisis. The worsening. Crime. Problems. The worsening. Crisis. The worsening. Moral. Decay. The worsening. National. And international. Situations. I'll tell you. Apart. From Jesus Christ. I wouldn't. Even. Want to. Look. At. 1980. And the. Beautiful. Thing. Is. I don't. Have. To. But. He. Will. Take. Me. By. His. Guidance. And. His. Counsel. You. Can. Start. Today. Pastors. Are. Back. In. The. Prayer. Room. They. Love. To. Pray. With. You. As. You. Commit. Your. Life. To. God. May. God's. And. Rest. Upon. Your. Life. May. You. Experience. His. Power. His. Presence. His. Love. May. You. Go. For. To. A. Happy. New. You. In. Jesus. Christ. As.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncDbQQeGMMs)