# 25 The Mixed Multitude, Numbers 11:1, 4 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** PRpQR8SoaTE
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRpQR8SoaTE

This morning we'd like you to turn with us to the 11th chapter of the book of Numbers. Taking a look at this particular incident in their history, Kibroth HaTabah.

Numbers 11 verse 1, it reads that when the people complained, it displeased the Lord. It seems like complaining becomes a pattern in life. One that we very easily fall into. It seems that once we begin a pattern of murmuring and complaining, that just so quickly, everything that comes along, we start looking at it with a negative aspect. And you start murmuring about one thing, it's easy then to start murmuring about another until nothing pleases you, nothing goes right. Murmuring and complaining is a... It's a bad trap to fall into. And unfortunately, the children of Israel had fallen into this trap of murmuring and complaining. And whenever you murmur, God always takes it personal. He gets upset. Because in reality, you are murmuring against Him. Because He is the one who is dictating and orchestrating. He is dictating the circumstances of our lives. And so, we find that in verse 4, God punished them for their murmuring in the first three verses, but they don't learn. Verse 4, they start murmuring again. Now there came out with the children of Israel from Egypt a mixed multitude. And this mixed multitude began to lust. And the children of Israel also wept again. And they said, Who shall give us flesh? To eat. Now we are told in the scriptures that when the children of Israel came out of Egypt, there came out with them a mixed multitude. People who weren't fully committed to God. They weren't really full Jews. Part Jewish, part something else. Weren't totally dedicated to God, but something exciting is happening. People are leaving. Let's go along for the ride. And let's, you know, see what this adventure will bring. And so they went along. They went along with the children of Israel, but they were a mixed multitude. That lack of total commitment. So that when it really starts to get rough, they are the people who first start to complain and murmur. And now they're complaining because they haven't had any flesh to eat for a long time. And they started remembering the days in Egypt. Oh, remember in Egypt when we had all the fish we could eat. And oh man, those cucumbers and melons and onions and leeks and garlic. Oh man, could I go for some onions, you know. Lusting again after the things of Egypt. It's a tragic thing when a person begins to look back at the old life and begins to desire again the things of the past life from which he's been delivered. Isn't it interesting though? As they look back to Egypt, they were looking back with sort of a smack of the lips. I always get concerned when a person begins to testify of his old life and how evil and wicked he was and he begins to smack his lips because his mouth is salivating as he thinks of those things he used to do. You're in dangerous ground when you start looking back at the past. Experiences and bondage. Experiences and bondage from which God delivered you and you only remember those tasty aspects of it but you forget the horrible bondage that you were under. They forgot how that their backs were laid bare by the Egyptian taskmasters. They forgot that burden that they were under. How their backs were bowed continually under the load that the Egyptians were placing on them. And now all they could remember were the garlics and the onions and the leeks. And so they spread their discontent. And it is interesting how that complaining seems to be contagious. You know, you may not even observe something isn't quite right but someone says, Did you see that? Wasn't that horrible? Oh, I was so shocked. And all of a sudden you say, Wow, yeah. Hey, that is... My, that's terrible, you know. Well, you weren't even aware of it. But complaining is contagious. And next, you find you're complaining. You know, you may be in a place and you may be thirsty but you haven't really thought too much about it. You know, sure, I'm thirsty. But then someone says, Man, am I ever thirsty. Oh, if I just had a great big tall glass of water right now. Ice cubes. Oh, man. You know, and then all of a sudden you say, Wow, I'm thirsty. It's contagious. Man, you remember the fish. Man, all we could eat. And onions. Oh, boy. Those cantaloupe. And soon all of the people of Israel were standing at their tent doors crying. Oh, I'm so hungry for onions. Oh. If we could just spice up this manna a bit, you know, with some garlic or something, it would be so much better. And they were all standing in their tents crying. So when Moses went walking through the camp, all he hears is this boo-hooing in all of the tent doors. You know, and sort of, You're the guy that brought us out here. And Moses came in before God and he says, God, I've had it. I can't stand it anymore. Lord, I didn't conceive all of these people. They're not my kids. Why should you lay them on me and say, Take them out of this land into the land that I'll show you. Lord, I can't take it. I can't stand it. They're too much. And the Lord was displeased with their complaining. And he said to Moses, You go out and you tell them tomorrow, I'm going to bring them meat. I'm going to give them the flesh to eat. I'm going to fulfill the desires of their lust of their hearts. But I'm not going to give them enough flesh for just one day or two days or five or 10 or 20. I'm going to give them enough flesh for 30 days until it comes out of their ears. It comes out of their nostrils until it nauseates them. Moses said, Lord, how in the world are you going to do this? How in the world are you going to do that? We're out here in the wilderness. You want us to kill all of our cattle and all of our flocks to give them all this meat? Or are you going to empty the sea and put all of the fish here at our gates? And God said to Moses, Is my hand short, Moses? Moses, you think I can't do what I said I'm going to do? It is interesting whenever God makes an unusual promise, we always in our mind try to naturally figure out how God might do it. And Moses is trying to figure out naturally how God might keep his word. And God says, Hey, you just leave that with me. That's my business. And the next morning, God caused the quail to start flying in the camp about three feet high. Perfect for batting practice. And these guys went out with their sticks. And man, as these cubby of quail came by, they just started whacking them, laying up piles and heaps of quail all day long. In fact, all day long. All night long and all the next day. Until the families that collected the least amount had collected about 850 gallons of quail. And these people, so greedy, so lustful, rather than just taking what they really needed, so greedy and so lustful, just glutting themselves. Not being able to stop, not being able to control their lust, but just grabbing for everything. And while they started to put the quail in their mouth, while the flesh was still between their teeth, the anger of God was kindled against them. And God began to smite them with a great plague. And the people began to die. And these who lusted after these things perished in the wilderness. And they buried them there. And they called the name of the place, Kibrath HaTavah, the grave of lust. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians the 10th chapter that these things all happened to them as examples for us that we would not lust after evil things. There is a tendency within man to lust after evil things. But God is showing us the danger of lusting after evil things. Because soon we're there crying and complaining and mourning until God gives it, until you just, He gluts you with it, but still you can't really partake of it or enjoy it or be satisfied by it. There is no place of satisfaction for my fleshly lust and desires. I don't care how much you do, you're still gonna thirst for more or hunger or lust for more. There is no place of satisfying the lust of your flesh. What does this experience of the children of Israel have to teach us today? First of all, it teaches us the danger of the mixed multitude. But there always is with the camp of God a mixed multitude of people. And the mixed multitude in the church are the ones that are lukewarm because that is a mixed condition. You see, when you're lukewarm, it means you're part hot and part cold. That's what makes lukewarm. But really, you are neither hot nor cold. Now Jesus said, I would that ye were hot or cold. But because you're lukewarm, you're nauseating. I'm gonna spew you out of my mouth. The mixed condition. He wants you to be really fervent and on fire for Him. If you're cold, He can deal with that. He can convict you. He can show you your errors. But this business of right in between, neither hot nor cold, is one of the hardest places because it's hard to reach that person. Get off my case, man. I go to church. Why bug me? I pay my tithes. And you're in that position where there isn't that full on commitment to God. And yet there isn't a total, you know, alienation from God either. Really, it is a very miserable place to be because you have too much of Jesus Christ to really be comfortable in the world anymore. You get around the worldly people and you get uncomfortable because there's too much of Christ that you can be comfortable there. But yet, there's too much of the world to really be fully satisfied in Christ. So you're in that mixed multitude. You're in that mixed condition, neither hot nor cold, and you're being pressed by both sides. You don't have the full joy and blessing of total commitment to Jesus Christ so that you can't really enjoy your Christian experience to its fullest. But yet, there's still too much of the Lord to be fully happy in the world. So you're right there being beat in the middle. In a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate your relationship to Jesus Christ? 10 being a full-on, total, complete commitment. Nothing held back. In a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate your relationship? Now remember, anything around 5, 4, 5, 6, that's lukewarm. Jesus said, I would that you were hot or cold. The mixed multitude began to lust. They fell to lusting. And then they began to spread that desire among themselves. And they began to say, Oh, if we only could do this. Oh, if we only had this in our church. And because they are not satisfied with spiritual things, they try to even bring into the church those things that would appeal to man's flesh. And they try to introduce into the church, rather than just the pure word of God, an entertaining program. That I can go to church and be excited and fulfilled. And fleshly things and fleshly entertainment. And it begins to spread like a cancer through the body. Beware when you are no longer content just feeding on the bread of life, Jesus Christ. But you feel like, Oh, you need something else, different. Beware when you begin to look at the past experiences, the pit from which you have been digged with a desire. You begin to relish the things of the past. It's so easy to remember the euphoria, the flush when the heroin hit your veins, but you so quickly forget that horrible withdrawals that you went through. The exhilaration of the liquor, but you forget the bondage that it held you in. You forget the hangovers, and the foolish, stupid antics that you did while under its influence. You see, when we remember the past and when we look back, if we are just looking at the exciting part and we forget the bondage that it brought, we're in danger. Beware. Beware when you seek to bring into the worship within the church a worldly program, and try to make the church appealing to man's flesh. The Christian life is not appealing to the flesh. The Christian life is one of the denial of the flesh. Jesus said, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. The Bible speaks of having crucified the flesh with its desires or its lust. The Bible also speaks of, by the Spirit, putting to death, mortifying the deeds of the body or the flesh. The Christian life does not appeal, but is antagonistic to my flesh life. Now I will frankly admit, there may be more exciting experiences in the world and in worldly things for your flesh than there is in spiritual things. You go to work tomorrow and the guys start talking about their weekend. Oh, Sunday morning. Man, I'll tell you. Oh, were we blown out. We were so loaded. We didn't know what we were doing. And they start telling these dumb things. And then they say, What did you do Sunday morning, man? Oh, I went to church. Church? And as they relate the things that they do and the things that they did. Yes, as far as the flesh is concerned, they were probably more exciting and pleasing to the flesh, but they were totally unprofitable and totally unsatisfying because next Monday they're going to be talking again because they're going to have to go out next week and find something else because they haven't found satisfaction. In college, I was sort of the idea man. And the guys would come over to my room in the evening and say, What should we do tonight for excitement or fun? And I was always dreaming up some kind of idea. Some crazy antic to get excitement and fun. Stage a kidnap in front of CBS in Hollywood or something, you know. All kinds of silly, stupid things. And oh, we'd come back to the room and we'd just laugh until we'd heard at the reactions of people and all while we were doing these stupid things. But the next night they'd be back again. What are we going to do tonight? You know. Because there's no end in the search for satisfaction. You may think, man, this is the greatest night we ever had. Oh, I never laughed so hard. Oh, remember that guy. Did you see his expression and all? And yet it doesn't satisfy because the next day you're looking for something else. You need some new kind of a kick, something different, something else to get your kicks from because living after the flood, living after the flesh is the emptiest, least satisfying life a person can live. But walking after the Spirit, though it may not give to your flesh the same kicks and the same excitement, yet it brings to your soul such a satisfaction and such a fullness. David writing of this very experience of this God giving them all of this flesh and all. David writing of this very experience declares, He sent them their request. They wanted flesh, He sent it to them. But He gave them leanness of soul. Oh, their flesh was glutted, but their souls were empty. And that's the tragic picture of so many people today who are living after the flesh. They have glutted themselves with every kind of thing and yet there's such a leanness, such an emptiness within their soul. Now the tragic mistake that the children of Israel made in regards to this manna and their desiring and lusting after flesh. The tragic mistake was that they had lost sight of the goal. You see, God didn't intend that they spend the rest of their life in the wilderness eating manna. God intended that they come into this glorious land that was so productive it would grow all of the manna and melons and cucumbers and everything that they could possibly desire. Plus fruit and vegetables and all. A land that was extremely productive. A land that was well watered. A land that was flowing with milk and honey. And it was God's intention to bring them into this glorious land that they might enjoy the full variety and benefits of this land living now in relationship with God. No longer in bondage to the taskmasters of Egypt. But they could have the same things of Egypt even more without the horrible, cruel bondage. We lose sight of the goal. The Old Fashioned Revival Hour Quartet used to sing quite often, This world is not my home I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue The angels beckon me from heaven's open door and I can't feel at home. In this world anymore. It's a glorious thing when you can't feel at home in this world. When you look around at this corrupted society around us and you think, Man, I don't belong here. When you see people are just giving themselves over to their flesh trying to glut themselves with these things and you see the emptiness and the futility and the frustration of the world and you think, Oh God, I don't belong here. And so those of the Old Testament who were following after God it said that they died in faith not having received the promise but seeing it afar off they embraced it and they claimed that they were just strangers and pilgrims here and they were looking for a city whose maker and builder is God. They were looking for a better land. Actually, they were just conscious of the emptiness of a life after the flesh and they were looking for something more something better that which God had promised to them. Paul said, Let this mind be in you which also was in Christ Jesus. What was the mental attitude of Christ concerning the cross? A bitter experience to be sure. But who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross though he despised its shame. In other words, it was looking ahead to that which God had promised to do and that which God had planned to do. That's the thing that kept them going. That's the thing that keeps us going. When we start settling down and looking back we're in trouble. We need to be looking ahead. Paul said that you might know what is the hope of your calling if you only knew what God has prepared for you. If you only knew the blessed land God is bringing you to. If you only knew the fullness of joy and all that God has for you. And he's seeking to bring you into it. But you're halting in the wilderness. You're starting to look back. You're saying, oh man, I'm so hungry for onions I can't stand it. And looking back to the old life instead of looking forward into that full rich relationship with God that he would have you to experience in Jesus Christ and entering into the fullness of the blessing that comes from total commitment. This lukewarm half commitment is the greatest danger in anyone's spiritual walk. To stop anywhere short of full commitment is to leave yourself open to a divided heart and to that unsatisfactory state of looking back and longing in a way for the things of the past. Rather than pressing towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God which is in Christ Jesus. It is a wise person that can learn from the mistakes of others. God wrote their mistakes in the book so that the wise people could profit. These things were all written for examples unto us that we would not lust after evil things. There the people died there they were buried and they called the place Kibroth Hatavah the graves of lust. And I think today how tragic so many people have been buried in graves of lust. Buried in it. The tragic end. They were buried by their own lust. Buried at Kibroth Hatavah. Such an empty life.

Shall we pray. Father we pray that your Holy Spirit will help us today not to look back but to look forward to that beautiful promise of God. That life of richness and fullness that is ours in Christ Jesus. Lord help us that we might indeed deny ourselves and take up our crosses. That we might follow the totally completely faithful way totally, totally, completely, fully Lord in a commitment of our all unto Thee in Jesus name. Amen.

Shall we stand. God knows and you know your heart today. You know where your mind is. You know what your response is to the past. Whether or not you're looking back with an inner longing weeping over the lost experiences. Or whether or not there is that total commitment and abandonment of your life to Jesus Christ. If as the Spirit of God turns the light upon your heart this morning you find that He is speaking to you about that mixed condition of your heart. The lukewarmness that is there. Ere He spew you out I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room where the pastors are waiting to pray with you. And there bow your knee before Jesus Christ and say I want to make you the Lord of my life. Fully, completely. I don't want to hold back anything. And that again you might begin to press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. May the Lord be with you and may the Lord bless you. And guide you through this week. May His hand be upon your life ever drawing you into a fuller commitment of your all. Totality of your life to Him. May you walk in beautiful fellowship with Him. Feeling His closeness, His love, His power. As He seeks to work in you in order that He might work through you to reach that needy world around you. God bless you. God strengthen you. And fill you with His peace. In Jesus name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRpQR8SoaTE)