# 210 The Riches of His Glory, Romans 9:19-23 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** O-k6FjwQRgs
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-k6FjwQRgs

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to the ninth chapter of Romans, beginning with verse 19. Paul, here in speaking of the sovereignty of God and how he does rule over man, said, You will then say to me, Why does he then find fault for who has resisted his will? Nay, but, O man, who are you to reply against God? Shall the thing that is formed say to him that formed it, Why have you made me like this? Has not the potter the power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath that were fitted for destruction, and that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy which he had before prepared unto glory? Speaking of the sovereignty of God, Paul introduces the illustration of the potter where? Where? Working with clay. And as we see the potter working with clay, we are drawn to the power that the potter has over that lump of clay. He can make of that lump of clay anything he desires. He can make a beautiful little vase to hold rosebuds, or he can make a big pot to contain the garbage that they might carry it out. He has that awesome power over the clay to make of it anything he desires. The clay really has no say in its destiny. The clay cannot really say to the potter, Hey, why did you make me, you know, a little rosebud? I feel very manly. I wanted to be, you know, a water pot or something. The clay is subject to the desire, and the will of the potter. He has total control over its destiny.

Now, here is where the analogy really breaks down. For in the analogy, God surely is the potter, and we are the clay. But the analogy breaks down here because we as clay so often are saying to the potter, Why have you made me like this? I so often say, I shouldn't find myself challenging the work of God in my life. Somehow, as a child of God, I feel that my life should be exempt from suffering or pain. I feel because I'm a child of God, I should never experience any real pressure. Life ought to be a party. I feel that there really should be no problems because I serve God. And surely, I should never experience that heartbreak of rejection. I don't know where we get these concepts. Surely, they are not biblical concepts. We are told in the scriptures, And they that live godly shall suffer persecution. We are told, Don't be surprised concerning the fiery trials which are to try you as though some strange thing has happened. We are told that if we suffer with him, we will reign with him. And that men will revile and persecute and say all manner of evil against us falsely. We are told to expect these things from a world that is hostile to the God that we serve. And yet somehow, whenever these things seem to come across our path, we begin to challenge God and we say, God, why did you allow this? Why did you allow me to suffer like this? Why did you allow me to experience this pain? God, why is it that I have such problems when I'm trying to serve you? And though we are the children of God, yet it follows that God so often uses these things as his instruments whereby he seeks to shape our lives into his will and into his purpose. Now, I would cry out against those very tools that God is using to shape me into his image. I cry out because I do not always understand my situations.

I cannot see what God is doing through this particular trial. I do not know what God is intending to work out by this present difficulty. I often complain against what God is doing because I do not really always understand God.

You know, if we really knew and believed that God's knowledge far exceeded our knowledge, we'd never argue with him. But whenever you find yourself arguing with God, it is only a further revelation of your understanding, a belief that his knowledge exceeds yours.

I do not understand the depth of God's love for me. You see, he loves me so much that he puts up with all of my griping and complaining when I am imagining that things are going against me, that somehow God has changed his attitude towards me and all things are working together for evil. Instead of for good.

That's because I have such limited sight. You see, the problem is in the fact that I am always interested in my immediate well-being.

God is always interested in my eternal well-being. I'm interested in my present comfort. God is interested. I'm interested in my eternal comfort.

I'm looking out for my present ease. God is looking out for my eternal ease. And thus, as God is working in my life, his eternal plan, it doesn't always match my temporal goals or desires.

We are so foolish. Because if given a choice, often we would take the temporal advantage to the denialism, or the eternal advantage. We lay up for ourselves for today,

and we take no store for the eternal. Jesus remarked concerning that wealthy farmer who said, I am rich. I'm increased with goods. I don't even have enough room in my barns to store all my grain. I know what I'll do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger barns. And Jesus said, the Lord said of that man, Thou fool, this night your soul will be required of you. And then who's going to spend all your wealth? Man takes such careful pains to take care of his temporal needs, but so often ignores the eternal. Now it's just the opposite with God. He is interested in my eternal well-being. And thus, God's work, in my life, always has eternity in view.

And there's where we clash. Because I am looking at the temporary, and God is looking at the eternal, we find ourselves clashing.

Using the analogy of the potter working with clay to illustrate God's sovereign power over our lives is terrifying.

To realize that he has, complete control of my destiny. That he can make of me anything he wants. He can do with me whatever he wants. I have no real say-so. It would be extremely terrifying if I did not know that the potter loved me supremely and only desired my best good. And that knowledge is the thing that sustains me. During the times of trial and difficulty. Though I cannot understand why I'm going through this, and though I do not understand fully God's mercies and compassions and grace, for they are unsearchable, yet I do know that he loves me, and his interests for me are for my good. He said, I know my thoughts towards you. They are good. Not evil. And he said, all things are working together for good to those who love God. So, I know that as God is working in my life, he is first of all preparing me for his glory. The end of verse 23 there, he speaks of the vessels of mercy which God had before prepared for his glory. Jesus said, I'm going to prepare a place for you. But it also follows that he is preparing me for that place. God is working in my life today to prepare me to dwell with him in the glory of his eternal kingdom. Now, there were many things in my life that would make me unfit for that kingdom, and for the glory of God. And for the glory within that kingdom. And so, God works in my life so patiently to remove those rough edges from my life. Now, I will confess to you that I love the finished product. When I see God's work in my life, and I see what God has done, I love the finished product, though I hate the process that it takes to finish the product. The present difficulty, the present hardship, the present trial, I don't like. But I do like what God is working out through me when he completes that work in me. I love the work that God has done in removing that horrible, violent temper that I used to have. That uncontrolled temper, that once governed me. To be able to face the same kind of situations and not to feel that rising, boiling within is glorious. I love it. I love God's finished product. But oh, I'll tell you, it was miserable going through the processes to get to that place. That which God had to do in my life to mellow me out, to remove from me that horrible temper that once was so destructive to those around me and even to myself. I love to see God work in me. I love the finished product. I love that work of grace that I observe in my life. And God is making of me, according to verse 23 here, a vessel of mercy. As God works in me and as he has me on the wheel and as he brings those circles, as he brings those circumstances into my life, they're all purposed to make of me a vessel of mercy that he can use, fit for the master's use, we are told. God is outfitting me so that he can use me. And as I yield to the touch of God, I become more merciful all the while. People say, oh, you shouldn't let him get away with that. But it doesn't matter. They say, ah, here's your chance to get even. Do you know that getting even used to be one of the most important things in my life? I could not rest until I got even. And usually I was never satisfied with just getting even. I wanted a little more. And my wife can tell you that in the process of getting even, my mind was diabolical. Those things that I would devise, to get even with people. But as God works in my life, making me a vessel of mercy, it's interesting that getting even doesn't matter anymore. What difference does it make? Things happen to me that should really make me very upset. I should really be upset about what's happening. And in fact, many times my wife is upset because I'm not upset. And she thinks I don't care. And she says, you're just really hiding your true feelings. You really feel inside, you know, because she knows me. But it's glorious to see God. And then the years, you say, well, years mellow things out. You know, it's like wine. You get more mellow with the years. But hey, I believe that it is God's work in me. It's taken a long time, but we're getting there. Making of me a vessel of mercy. Jesus said, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. And so he works in me to make me a vessel of mercy in order that he might demonstrate to me his abundant mercy. Now the whole purpose of God there in verse 23 is that he might make known to us the riches of his glory. God desires that you should share in the riches of his glory. That you should know the riches of his glory. The Bible here in the New Testament speaks much of the riches of God. It speaks of the riches of his wisdom, the riches of his goodness, the riches of his grace, the unsearchable riches of Christ, and the riches of his glory. You know, I often think of the riches of his glory, what it is going to be like to be with him. What it's going to be like to see the glory of the throne of God, to see the angels worshiping about the throne, to see the saints of the past, to meet them and to share with them. And I've often thought about the riches of God's glory. And this week I had an interesting occasion to think very much about the riches of his glory because for a moment I thought I was destined to be there. When we were in Columbus, Ohio, the radio station manager was driving me to the banquet where I was to speak in celebration of the radio's ten years of broadcasting. And his mind was not on his driving, but was definitely into the activities of the evening. We got into a traffic jam and the time was approaching for the beginning of the banquet and we were parked there in traffic and he was nervous and he wasn't thinking about driving at all but just the banquet that was coming. And as we finally came to the restaurant, he had to make a left turn into the restaurant across two lanes of approaching traffic. And because his mind wasn't really on his driving, there was a car coming up about 60 miles an hour. And so he started pulling slowly across those two lanes right in front of this car. Your mind does some very quick computations as you judge the speed of the car coming and you realize, hey, I've had it. This is it. And of course I was on the passenger side and it was coming up right at me. And it's interesting, I think that your mind begins to gear into something so intensely that your eyes begin sending more than 18 frames per second into the brain. I think that I was observing the thing so intensely that I was getting probably about 500 frames per second because suddenly it was like it was happening in slow motion. I was picking up so many frames. It was like slow motion, here's this car coming and this guy's practically parked in this lane. And I thought, when he started to turn, I thought surely he sees that car and he won't turn, you know. And then as he started to turn, I thought well surely that car will see us and do something about it. But for a while, neither was happening. That car kept coming round and going right on right there. Finally I yelled, watch it! And he stepped on the gas just as this other fellow stepped on his brakes. And the other car went out of control into a spin and into a skid. Fortunately skidded right behind the back of the car. I still don't know how he missed, only the angel of the Lord watching over. But I really thought, I really thought I had it. And I was very interested in my reactions. There have been a few times in my life where I really faced death. I find them very interesting experiences because I love to observe my own reactions. We were living in Huntington Beach and a fellow came up to the door and says, come on I want you to go in the car with me. And my wife says, honey come here a minute. And I went back and she says, don't get in the car with that guy. He's crazy. He's apt to pull a gun on you and shoot you. Now don't get in the car. You know I knew he was crazy but you know I thought, well you know you humor him. You humor those that are feeble minded. And so he said, get in the car. So I got in the car. And he went around to the driver's side and he reached down and he pulled out a .45, pointed it at me and pulled the trigger twice. My reaction was, my wife's a prophet.

Hey I could see the shells in the chambers as it spun around. And I thought, wow two misfires. And then the guy started laughing. And he said, I was just testing you. He said, I filed off the firing pin and I just wanted to see how you would react to death. He said, you passed the test. But I was interested in my reactions. Because you think, hey this is it. You know this is the end, this is all she wrote. And they say that, well I think that your brain does speed up and you begin to think of an awful lot of things in just split seconds of time. And I thought, oh I'm going to see the glory. In a moment I'll be with my parents. And it was just sort of, God take care of Kay and the kids. Don't let them grieve too much. This is it. Now God spared us and he evidently has something yet in store. But one of these days, I'm going to enter into the riches of his glory. There's probably a lot more preparation that he needs before I get there. But one of these days, when God has finished his work in me, I'm going to enter into his presence and there behold his glory. To dwell with him in his kingdom forever. And you know I think that it's going to be quite exciting. I know it will be. I read of a little girl around six years old who was blind. And she was examined by a specialist who informed her parents that her problem was correctable by surgery. And so they consented to the surgery. And after the operation, her eyes were heavily bandaged, but day by day they would gradually remove more bandages to allow the nerves of the eyes to become sensitive to the light rather slowly to begin to develop just the perception of light. And finally, the little girl was sitting on her mother's lap as the final bandages were removed. And she screamed in delight as she looked around the room and could see things for the first time. She jumped off of her mother's lap, ran over to the window, and looked outside. And it was spring. And the trees were green. The grass was green. Children were playing in the streets. She saw the beautiful color of the flowers, the blueness of the sky, and the white, billowy clouds. And she came running back to her mother just sobbing. And her mother said, What's wrong, dear? What's your problem? What's the matter? And she said, Oh, mother, why didn't you tell me it was this beautiful? And the mother said, Well, honey, I tried. I did my best. But I just, you know, I just didn't have words to describe to you the true beauty of outdoors. I think when we get to heaven and we see the riches of His glory, we'll go up to Paul and say, Hey, Paul, you were here. Why didn't you tell us how beautiful it really is? And Paul will say, Well, you know, I did my best, but I told you that it was so glorious that it would be a crime to try to describe it with words. We just don't have words that can describe the riches of God's glory where God wants you to dwell with Him through all eternity. That's why Paul the Apostle said, For I reckon that the present suffering is not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Yes, I may be going through some hardships right now. It may be tough. I don't understand these trials that I'm facing. I don't understand this rejection or this hurt that I have. And yet the Master Potter is working through these things. As He is forming and shaping this vessel unto mercy that it might be able to receive and to enter in to the riches of His glory in that day. And as that eternity begins to unfold and God begins to reveal into us what is the exceeding richness of His love and grace towards us in Christ Jesus with Paul, we'll say, hey, the sufferings of that world are not worthy to be compared with the glory. So, little pilgrim, cheer up. God loves you. He's working in you to prepare you for that glory. And one day, as His work is complete, we'll gather together around the throne of God, complete in His name, Jesus, to dwell with Him world without end. What a glorious hope God has given to us. The vessels of mercy that He is fitting for the riches of His glory. Father, we thank You this morning for that wonderful hope, that sure hope, because You've guaranteed it through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Lord, we rejoice in the hope of Your calling. And we anticipate that day with eagerness when we shall all be gathered together safely home to dwell with You in the glory of Thy kingdom to experience world without end the exceeding riches of Your love through Jesus. Sustain us. Help us. Give us the proper attitude, Lord, towards Your work within our lives that we might yield to the touch of the potter and be molded according to His purpose and will in Jesus' name. There is an old hymn. I don't think we've ever sung it at Calvary. When all my labors and trials are o'er When I shall rest on that beautiful shore Just to be near the dear Lord I adore Oh, that will be glory Glory for me Glory for me Oh, that will be glory for me When by His grace I shall look on His face That will be glory Yes, glory for me. One of these days we shall each one by the grace of God experience His finished work in our lives and be transformed into His image to dwell with Him. In the meantime, may the Lord bless you and strengthen you. May He fill you with His Spirit. May your heart be filled with that glorious hope. May God watch over you and keep you day by day. And I often say, God, I don't know what You're doing, but just keep it up because You know what's best for me. And may God just continue that work in your life until He brings you into that image of His Son by His grace and love.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-k6FjwQRgs)