# 220 The Greatest of These, 1 Corinthians 13:13 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** _fmf21_PxO4
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fmf21_PxO4

This morning we'd like to draw your attention, though, to the 13th chapter of 1 Corinthians, verse 13, where Paul declares, Now abides faith, hope, love, but the greatest of these is love. There are a lot of things in our lives that play an important part of our lives for a time, but then they pass away.

A lot of things in which we get involved, but they're not permanent.

When I was a child, there were things that were very important to me. They're no longer important to me. They were once a very important part of my life. I could hardly wait for the news carrier to get there in the afternoon so I can find out whether or not... Mickey Mouse got wiped out by Peg Leg Pete or whether or not Joe Palooka retained his crown as world champion or wait for the evening hours so I could listen to the next episode of Little Orphan Annie and Jack Armstrong. I belonged to the secret club. I had my own decoder and I drank Ovaltine and ate Wheaties. I wanted to be the all-American boy. Okay.

These things... These things of our childhood, they pass along. When I was a child, thought as a child, responded as a child, but we grow up. And things which once were an important part of our lives are now a part of the past. They don't abide. Oh, it used to be great thrills for me to get a two-by-four, nail an orange crate onto it and skate on the bottom and have my own scooter. And if you would take off the little rubber bushing that you used on the back part of the scooter, you could really turn that thing sharp.

I would look rather funny today if I was going down the street with my orange crate scooter. Now that I'm a man, I've put away childish things. They pass. Even in our spiritual walk, there are things that may be... a benefit to us now, but they are not lasting. They are an important and a vital part of our development now, but they too shall pass. Paul speaks here in the 13th chapter of some of these spiritual aspects of our lives that have limited value and one day will pass away. He said, Whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. The gift of prophecy was given to the early church in order that through the gift of prophecy, the church might be edified or built up in Christ. That the church might be exhorted to the right kind of living and that they might be comforted through their trials. And so as I exercise the gift of prophecy today to edify the prophecy, to edify the body of Christ, to encourage and exhort and to comfort, I realize that there is coming a day when my ministry to the body of Christ will no longer be necessary. When we get to heaven, I'm going to have to look for a totally new occupation because then we will be with our Lord. When that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part will be done away. And our ministry today is only a partial ministry. The completeness will take place when we're with the Lord. And that which is in part will be done away. And so prophecy as important and vital as it is to the church now is not an abiding characteristic. There will be the day when the gift of prophecy shall fail. Another passing gift is that of tongues. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. God has given that gift of tongues to many individuals to enable them to communicate by the Spirit with God. Spiritual communication with the Father. And it is a very edifying experience. And it is good that God will help us to overcome some of our limitations and some of our weaknesses. Because as Paul said in his letter to the Romans, chapter 8, we don't always know how we ought to pray. But the Spirit will make intercession. And so it is great to have the help of the Spirit in communicating to the Father the things of the Spirit. But there is coming the day. Again when we are with the Lord. When that which is perfect has come. That tongues will no longer be necessary. We will be with Him. And thus tongues shall cease. Another gift of the Spirit. The word of knowledge. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Now it is good that God does give us an insight. To things around us. But that insight that God gives to us is never complete. Our knowledge is also just a partial knowledge of things. Even though you might have the gift of the word of knowledge. It isn't a total knowledge. It's just important salient facts that God often reveals. Not the full details. When Paul the Apostle was on his way to Rome. And the ship had been in the storm there in the Mediterranean. And for thirteen days they had neither seen the sun nor stars. And had thus lost all their bearings. Some of them thought that they were about ready to be cast up on the coast of Africa. They had thrown overboard all of the ships. The cargo. They had thrown overboard all of the ropes. The tacklings. And they had despaired of life itself. They figured there's no way we're going to get out of this one. They had given up hope for a life. But on the morning of the fourteenth day. Paul stood on the deck. And he addressed the 265 people or so that were on the boat. And he said, be of good cheer. I imagine they could have thrown him overboard at that point. But Paul said, last night the angel of the Lord stood beside me. And he told me that the ship is going to be destroyed. But there will not be the loss of one life. Everyone is going to be saved. Now Paul didn't have all of the details. The Lord didn't tell him what island they were going to be cast on. The Lord didn't tell him the details of how they were to be saved. The Lord just gave him that knowledge. Partial knowledge of what was going to take place. The ship will be wrecked. But not the loss of any lives. And so we know in part. Now there is coming a time. When our knowledge will be total. When we are with the Lord. And thus this gift of the word of knowledge will no longer be necessary. So whether there be the gift of the word of knowledge. It shall pass away. For when that which is perfect is come. Then that which is in part will be done away. For when we see him face to face. Then we will know even as we are known. You see. When we get to heaven. And we finally see Jesus face to face. Our knowledge and understanding will be complete. Someone said. Do you think that we are going to know each other in heaven? Well do you think we are going to be dumber there than we are here? Of course we will know each other in heaven. When I see Jesus. I am going to know exactly who he is. The moment I see him. No one is going to have to introduce me. And say that is Jesus over there. I am going to know him the moment I see him. It is interesting quite often. When we are sitting in a restaurant. And I will go to order my meal. The waitress will do a double take. And she will say. Are you Chuck Smith? And I will say yeah. Oh I knew that voice. I just recognize your voice. I listen to you on the radio and all. And it is fun. Because so often they have such a shock. They say. Are you Chuck? They are shocked by what they see. Because they have developed a mental picture. Like I had a mental picture of Jack Armstrong. When I used to listen to him on the radio. And you get a mental picture of what they must look like. And then so often when you see them. It is a real shock. It is a real shock. Now I know that I am going to recognize his voice. I have heard his voice. But I will know him too. For now we see through the glass darkly. It is as looking through a dark distorted glass. But then it is going to be face to face. Now we know in part. But then we will know even as we are known. So whether there be this word of knowledge. This spiritual knowledge. It is going to vanish away. So there are things that are an asset to us. In our present spiritual walk. That are only temporary. God has given to them. Given them to us. To enable us right now. To live a life closer to him. But they are only necessary until he comes. And then they will not be necessary anymore. Because the revelation will be complete. When we see him face to face. Now there are things that will abide. There are three characteristics here. That he speaks about. That are abiding characteristics. And so he said. And now abides faith. Hope and love. Faith is believing. God's word. When he speaks. Now I may not understand it. Or I may understand it. That makes no difference. I believe it because God said it. Now there are a lot of things that I believe. That I don't understand. I believe them because God said them. If I only believe what I do understand. That takes no work of faith at all. That takes intellect. Reasoning capacities. But only to believe that which I can understand. Is not an operation of faith. Necessarily. Believing what I don't understand. Because God said it. Is then an operation of faith. I cannot always understand the circumstances of my life. The discouragements. The disappointments. The sufferings. But I do believe. That all things are working together for good. Because I love God. And he's called me according to his purpose. I don't understand. This past week. We received word from FCC. That our application for. Interim license has been rejected. Now I don't understand that. Especially when I know the one that was accepted. Yet rather than being disappointed. And carrying on. I accept that this is the will of God. And I'm happy with it. And I'm not going to file an appeal. Or try and you know salvage things or whatever. We just accept that God has closed the door. We made ourselves available to God. If he so desired. That we should have this channel and all. We were available. And we made ourselves available. But we accept that. Which was decided upon. Without fighting with it. Knowing that God's hand is in it. I don't understand it. I don't think we need another channel 40. But I don't. I don't understand why. The person who is. You know I think. Well. I don't understand. But I just accept it from God. Faith sustains me. And faith abides. Faith is just simply believing the word of God. And that's something I will always do. Even when I'm in glory. I'm still going to just believe the word of God. So faith is an abiding quality. Or characteristic. It's something that you're going to have forever. That belief and trust in the word of God. The second abiding characteristic. Is hope. Now hope. Is a combination. Of desire. And expectancy. There are some things that I desire. But I never expect to have them. So that isn't hope. There are some things I expect. But I don't desire them. And that's not hope either. When I was a kid. My dad used to say. When we get home. You're going to get a licking. So I was expecting it. But you couldn't say. I was hoping to get a licking. When I got home. I just expecting to get it. I was really hoping he'd forget. So it takes. Desire. And expectancy. To create hope. The Bible says. That we have. The blessed hope. Of the glorious appearing. Of our great God. And Savior Jesus Christ. I desire. For him. To appear. I expect. Him. To appear. So the combination. Of my desire. And my expectancy. Creates. My hope. For the appearing. The Bible speaks about. Hope. The hope of the believer. And the hope. Of glory. I desire. To be there. In the glory of God. I expect. To be there. In the glory of God. So I have the hope. Of glory. Now. Hope is. Also. A very. Sustaining. Power. In my life. David. In one of his Psalms. Said. Why are you. Cast down. Oh my soul. Why are you. So disquieted. Within me. David. Had come. To a place. In his life. Where he was. Very discouraged. He was depressed. He was. In turmoil. Things were. Just churning. Inside. And so. He started. Talking. To himself. Why are you. So discouraged. David. Why are you. So depressed. Hey soul. Why are you. Cast down. Why are you. So upset. Why are you. Disquieted. Within me. He said. Hope. Thou. In God. For he. Shall yet. Bring it. To pass. So what is. The answer. For the discouragement. Or the. Soul. That is in turmoil. And upset. The answer. Is. That hope. In God. Desiring. God. To work. Expecting. God. To work. And thus. I'm. Sustained. In. God. Because. My. Hope. Is. In. God. Hope. Is. Something. That. Abides. The. Third. Abiding. Characteristic. Is. Love. Now. Abide. These. Three. Faith. Hope. Love. The. Word. Love. Here. In. God. Is. The. Quality. Of. Love. That. Man. Did. Not. Know. Or. Understand. Man. Knew. Love. On. A. Physical. Level. Man. Knew. Love. On. An. Emotional. Level. But. He. Had. No. Love. On. The. Spiritual. Level. Love. That. Transcends. Anything. Of. The. Physical. Or. Emotional. You. See. When. We. Talk. About. Love. Being. One. Of. The. Abiding. Characteristics. Love. On. The. Spiritual. Level. The. Agape. Now. Whenever. You. Introduce. A. New. Word. Into. Language. Into. The. Vocabulary. It. Is. Necessary. That. That. Word. Be. Defined. And. So. Paul. Has. A. Definition. Of. This. Love. On. The. Spiritual. Level. This. Agape. And. He. Begins. His. Definition. By. Declaring. Love. Or. Agape. Suffers. Long. And. Is. Kind. In. Other. Words. Now. I. Take. And. Take. And. Take. And. I. Say. All. Right. That's. Enough. I've. Had. It. I've. Taken. Enough. Of. This. And. I. Respond. Not. Always. Kindly. But. This. Agape. Does. Not. Envy. It. Doesn't. Vaunt. Itself. It. Is. Not. Puffed. Up. It. Doesn't. Behave. Itself. In. A. Peculiar. Way. It. Doesn't. Seek. Its. Own. Way. It. Doesn't. Rejoice. In. Truth. It. Bears. All. Things. And. It. Believes. All. Things. And. It. Endures. All. Things. This. Love. Never. Fails. That's. A. Definition. Of. Agape. Now. I. Want. You. To. Love. And. Incidentally. This. Word. Charity. The. Way. It. Came. Into. Our. Text. Is. That. The. First. English. Translation. Of. The. Bible. Was. Done. By. Wycliffe. And. He. Transliterated. That. Word. Into. English. And. Created. The. Word. Charity. A. Transliteration. Of. The. Caritas. Of. The. Greek. But. What. He. Intended. And. The. Meaning. First. Put. Upon. It. No. Longer. Is. A. Good. Word. And. So. We're. Back. To. The. Word. Love. Though. That. Isn't. Really. A. Adequate. Word. Either. Because. It's. Overused. In. Other. Areas. But. He. Did. Not. Envy. Nor. Did. He. Vaunt. Himself. He. Was. Not. Puffed. Up. Nor. Did. He. Behave. Himself. Unseemly. He. Didn't. Seek. His. Own. Way. Nor. Was. He. Provoked. He. Endured. All. Things. Jesus. Never. Fails. Hey. It. Just. Reads. So. Smooth. Doesn't. It. Just. Fits. What. Does. That. Tell. You. That. He. Possessed. The. Agape. Now. Let's. Go. Look. Out. I've. Taken. And. Taken. And. Now. I've. Had. It. Man. And. I'm. Not. So. Kind. He. Does. Not. Envy. He. Doesn't. Vaunt. Himself. He's. Not. Puffed. Off. And. Periodically. I. Come. To. The. Thirteenth. Chapter. Of. First. Corinthians. And. I. Read. This. Definition. And. I. Put. My. Name. In. There. I. Do. This. Periodically. I. And. Isn't. Quite. As. Ludicrous. As. It. Was. Last. Year. What. Does. That. Tell. Me. God. Is. Working. In. Me. I. Long. For. The. Day. I. Hope. For. The. Day. To. Love. I. Know. That. This. Can. Only. Happen. As. The. Spirit. Of. God. Works. In. My. Life. For. The. Fruit. Of. The. Spirit. Is. Love. Now. The. Work. In. My. Life. Is. Complete. Then. By. The. Grace. Of. God. This. Is. Going. To. Make. Sense. When. I. Read. It's. Going. To. Flow. For. The. Fruit. Of. That. Finished. Product. As. I. Am. Conformed. Into. The. Image. Of. Jesus. Christ. And. I. Love. Even. As. He. Loves. So. We. Pray. Thank. You. Father. For. The. Abiding. Love. The. Greatest. Of. Them. Is. Love. Why. Because. If. You've. Noticed. The. Definition. Love. Is. All. Encompassing. It. Also. Includes. Faith. And. Hope. For. It. Believes. All. Things. Therefore. Faith. In. Love. I. Would. Recommend. That. Periodically. You. Begin. To. Read. This. Chapter. Inserting. Your. Name. And. Watch. The. Progress. Of. The. Spirit. Of. God. As. He. Works. In. You. Experience. That. Help. And. That. Work. As. He. Conforms. You. Each. Day. Into. The. Image. Of. Our. Lord. May. You. Be. Strengthened. And. May. You. Be. Blessed. And. May.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fmf21_PxO4)