# 137 The Lord Is Good, Nahum 1:7  - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** pi4RAYypE1o
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pi4RAYypE1o

Nahum is prophesying of the destruction that is going to come against the Assyrian Empire. And as he is telling of the judgment of God, the indignation and the wrath of God that is going to come upon the Assyrians, suddenly, in verse 7 of chapter 1, he makes this declaration, and it stands in such vivid and sharp contrast to everything around it. He says, The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him. In the doctrine of theology, it is important that you have, as the basic foundation of all of your theological truth, that awareness, that affirmation, that the Lord is good. Now, there are times when it is very easy for us to say, The Lord is good. The family is all healthy. I've just received an increase in my salary. And the sun came up this morning. Oh, the Lord is good. Or I wake up on the north shore of Wahoo and I look out and the surf is breaking and the shape is great and I say, Oh, the Lord is good. And there are times when it is very easy to affirm the Lord is good. But yet, there are other times where it is very difficult to affirm that the Lord is good. Because my circumstances can change. They can change so rapidly. And my child may have a serious accident. I may lose my job. Can I, in those circumstances, then affirm the Lord is good? So it's important that I have this basic tenet of my theology straight. And I know that the Lord is good because Satan, Satan is constantly challenging this truth.

Since the Garden of Eden, Satan has been challenging the goodness of God. He came to Eve and he said unto her, You see, God doesn't want you to eat of that tree in the middle of the garden because God knows that the day you eat of it, you're going to be just as wise as he is. And God's trying to protect himself. God is, really, not good, is what Satan is intimating. God is trying to hold back something good from you. Something that would be beneficial for you. And God is trying to hold you back from what is good for you. Now, this implication oftentimes comes to us when we have a strong ambition or a desire for a particular thing. And I think, oh, that would be so good if I could just have that. And I pray and I seek that God might grant that I have this deep desire of my heart and it doesn't come. And Satan comes along and says, well, if God is good, why didn't he do that for you? Or more often, when troubles come, Satan comes along and say, well, if God is so good, then why is this happening to you? And he challenges, the goodness of God. And I look at my circumstances, well, why is this happening to me? And I am prone to challenge the goodness of God because God has not done for me all that I'm desiring. Now, Satan is able to challenge the goodness of God quite effectively in my life because he takes advantage of my limited understanding of situations. I look at something, and I'm always thinking in the terms of the immediate benefits. I am not always smart enough to look down the road at the long-term effects. If there seems to be an immediate advantage, an immediate benefit, then I'm desiring to go for it. I want it for the immediate advantage. I am not always looking down the road and seeing what effect, the long-term effect that this could have upon my life.

And God, because He is good, looking down and seeing the long-term effect many times withholds from me those things that I desire so much right now.

I have been guilty, tragically guilty, of voicing to God my displeasure with Him and my complaint for not doing as I thought He ought to do for me,

for putting me in, what I considered to be very difficult and adverse circumstances. And I told Him how I didn't appreciate what was going on in my life and how I thought that He could surely give me a better deal than what He had. And He had to put up with all of my complaints and all of my griping because I didn't know what He had intended and purposed. I didn't see down the road what it was going to bring. And so often, a couple weeks later, I have to come back and say, Oh, Lord, I'm sorry. I didn't realize. I'm so sorry, God, for those things that I said to You last week. Forget it, Lord. This is fantastic. As I see the full cycle, I see the full plan of God, as He is now working out His purposes, and I can see how wise He was as He was dealing with the issues of my life. And then I realize how patient, He is as He put up with all my griping and complaining when He was wanting to do a good thing for me, and I just misunderstood the thing, and I thought it was terrible. I thought it was a disaster. But so many of those things that I looked upon as personal disasters, as I look back now with the advantage of hindsight, hey, they were the best things that ever happened to me. And I can look back now and say, Oh, God is good. The Lord is so good. But yet, while I was experiencing those trials, those problems, it was difficult to see the goodness of God.

It is important that I realize that the Lord is good. This truth will sustain you in adversity. Note the context. He's telling about the judgments of God that are coming. He's telling about the fierce power of God in destroying the enemy. How the Lord is going to take vengeance. How He is furious. Verse 5, The mountains quake at Him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at His presence. Yes, the world and all that dwell therein. Who can stand before His indignation? Who can abide the fierceness of His anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by Him. And as He is coming off with these, then suddenly, in sharp contrast, He says, Oh, the Lord is good. Well, that doesn't sound so good to me. He is a stronghold in the day of trouble, and He knows those who trust in Him. And then He goes right back in. But with an overrunning flood, He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an overflowing flood. He will make an utter end of the place thereof. And darkness, and He just, you know, right though, out of the midst of this great judgment of God that's going to come, He brings forth this truth. And it is important that this truth be set out in sharp contrast to the adverse circumstances of life. Because that's when we need to realize the goodness of God more than any other. Is when things are going bad, when circumstances are going wrong, that's when I need to know that God is good. Not when everything is peachy keen. Not when everything's falling my way. But when things are really tough and going to pieces around me, that's when I need to have this basic foundation of theology. The Lord is good.

Nahum was telling of the judgment of God that was going to come against the Assyrians. The Assyrians at this time, were a world power. No one had been able to stand before them. The northern kingdom of Israel had fallen. Other nations, Babylon had fallen. Syria had fallen. Egypt fell before them. And now their troops are surrounding Jerusalem. They have sent their blasphemous threats.

And the people within Jerusalem are quaking for fear of the enemy. And one night, an angel, an angel, an angel of the Lord went through the camp of the Assyrians and wiped out 185,000 of the army. So that in the morning when the people in Jerusalem woke up and they looked over the wall at the enemy, to their amazement, they saw all these dead corpses on the ground. 185,000. And Isaiah, writing of that moment, said, Fear has gripped the hearts of the sinners in Zion. Terror has taken hold of the hypocrites. And so often when we see that awesome power of God displayed in judgment, fear begins to grip our own hearts. But then's when I need to know that the Lord is good.

That he is a stronghold in the day of trouble. And he knows those who trust in him. You know, there have been many times when the only thing that really sustained me was the knowledge that God was good and that all things were working together for good in my life because I love God. Because at the moment, I could not see any possible good that might arise out of the particular situation that I was in. When I was riding up through the hills of San Ofri in a jeep with a major in the Marine Corps, and he was driving me up to the wreckage of my brother's plane, where the night before my brother and father were killed. And as I was trying to deal with my emotions and with God,

the only thing that sustained me was I knew that all things work together for good to those in need. Those who love God. I couldn't understand why this tragic accident. All I knew was all things work together for good. When I was driving home on the freeway late at night from Corona, and I had passed that Green River Country Club, and I was in that place where there is nothing between Green River Country Club and Gypsum Canyon Turnoff. And I heard that, back, that tire explode and that and I knew that my spare was flat. The only thing that sustained me as I was pulling off the highway is, all things work together for good to those who love God. I knew it was impossible to flag anybody down on the freeway at night. And so I started hiking down to the county park there, hoping that I'd find a payphone, which I did. And, called for a tow truck in Orange to come get me. And that poor driver, he didn't know what hit him. But as I sat there waiting for him, I, and knowing that all things work together for good, I thought the only good that can come out of this is to witness to the tow truck driver, you know.

God, you probably wanna reach this guy, but I think you could've worked a better way to do it. And thank the Lord, he did reach him, and, the guy, except, he was tired. accepted the Lord before we finished our ride back to Orange.

But there are many times that the only thing that kept my head above water was the knowledge that all things work together for good and the Lord is good.

When I've had an accident and it's all my fault, the only thing that sustains me is that all things work together for good for those who love God. So Nahum declares in the midst of all of the calamity that is coming down, the Lord is good. And then he says, he is a stronghold in the day of trouble. Now, because God is good, it does not follow that God will always keep you out of trouble.

Now, this is where I need to write it so you can understand it, but the Lord will usually keep you in trouble. Now, I don't mean that you're always going to have trouble, but when you're in trouble, the Lord will keep you.

In the psalm that we read, it said, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. Now, you could also write, many are the afflictions of the unrighteous, but you'd have to end that. They have no place to turn.

God doesn't, God doesn't promise to keep you from trouble. In fact, several times in the psalm there, he speaks about the troubles and God delivering from our troubles.

There are some promises in the Bible that I absolutely love. I like to rest in them all the time. There are other promises in the Bible. I just assume God didn't promise it. And they that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Oh, how I hate that promise. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. I hate that one. I like the latter part. But the Lord delivereth him out of them all. But you see, I'm not promised immunity from problems. I'm not promised immunity from trouble. But I am promised that the Lord is a stronghold in the day of trouble. There is a proverb that declares, the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous runneth into it and is safe. And you know, there have been so many times, so many days of trouble where the only comfort that I really have was the name of the Lord. And it was such comfort to me.

Down in Mexico when I'd forgotten, brushed my teeth with the water out of the spigot.

And I was so sick, I couldn't get off the couch. Lying there perspiring, perspiring, and never feeling any more miserable in all my life. The only comfort I got in that misery was just repeating the name of Jesus. Just saying, oh Jesus,

precious Jesus. And somehow there was comfort in it. Somehow there was strength in it. It was the strong tower that I had run into and found that comfort and that help from the Lord. For the Lord is a stronghold in the time of trouble. So many times, in great sorrow, in grief, the name of Jesus brings such comfort. And it's just the repeating, oh Jesus, Jesus. That there's just something about it. The name becomes just a refuge, a place of comfort, a place of help.

He is a stronghold for those in trouble. He'll give you strength in your hour of weakness. He'll give you hope in your time of despair. He is a place of defense, a place of safety, a place of security, a place of strength, a stronghold. And then Nahum declares, and he knows them that trust in him. God knows when you're trusting in him. He also knows when you're not trusting in him. When you're trusting in your own divine, in your own devices, in your own schemes, in your own wit. And tragically, God many times just leaves us go to our own schemes until we get to that desperate place of calling out upon him. What a tragedy when God allows us just to follow our own devices, our own schemings, our own plans.

The Lord knows those who trust in him. And he has promised, to sustain us, who trust in him. And whoso trusteth in the Lord shall not be desolate. God's promise. He'll sustain you if you put your trust in him. But why is it so hard for us to trust in God? Why is that such a difficult thing? It's so easy to say, oh, well, trust in the Lord, brother. Thanks a lot. It's so hard in this situation in which I'm in to trust in the Lord. Why is it that we find it so difficult? You'd think that God was always failing the difficulty we seem to have in trusting in him. Why is it so hard? And yet we always seem to find it difficult to trust in the Lord. I've told you before about the guy who fell off the cliff and as he was falling he grabbed onto a branch that was growing out of the rocks there on the side of the cliff and hanging on for dear life as he looked down on the valley floor below he lifted his head up and said, oh, God, help me. He heard the voice of the Lord saying, just let go, son, and trust in me. Well, he hung there for a moment and began to cling a little tighter and he again called and said, God, help me. And again he heard the Lord saying, just let go, son, and trust in me. He said, is there anybody else up there? I find it hard to just trust God. I look for alternatives to trusting in him. I'm willing to trust him to a point. You know, God, I'll give you 15 minutes to work out this problem and if you don't bring the solution in 15 minutes I'm going to have to, you know, take over myself and I'm going to have to work this thing through. Like the little kid who had such a great desire for a new bicycle. Hoping to get it on his birthday he started praying, oh, God, if you give me a bicycle for my birthday I promise I'll go to Sunday school every Sunday. I won't miss. And as his birthday came closer and the desire for the bike, God, got greater. He added, Lord, if you give me a bicycle for my birthday I'll not only go to Sunday school but I'll go out and get a paper route so I can give some money when I go every Sunday, Lord.

His birthday came and there was no bike. And so the day after he went into the other room and grabbed the statue of Mary and went back into his bedroom and said, okay, God, if you want to see your mother again you better come up with a bike.

We seem to trust God so far. And then if he doesn't seem to be coming through we go to our alternative program, the alternate plan. But in reality, God knows those that trust in him. It's so important that we do trust in him but it is hard to trust in him because that is the area that Satan challenges so much. He knows that the only real peace you'll ever have is when you trust in him. He knows that the only real peace is when you put your trust completely in God. He doesn't want you to have that peace. He knows your help will really come when you put your trust completely in God. He doesn't want you to have that help. He knows that complete trust in God is the place of absolute strength for the believer. And he's trying to keep you from that absolute strength. The Lord knows those who trust in him. God knows you today. God knows the fears that have filled your heart. God knows the sorrows, the disappointments that you've had. God knows the heavy trial that you've been going through, the uncertainty that you have of the future. God knows the loneliness that you are experiencing. The Lord knows those who trust in him. But not only does he know you, he wants you to know him. He wants you to know that he is good. And he wants you to know that if you'll just put your trust in him, he will be a stronghold for you. And he will take a stronghold on your life. And he will help and strengthen and deliver you, his beloved child.

Shall we pray? Father, we're grateful this morning for your goodness and for the fact that you know us. That we can put our trust in you today and find help. Lord, let the Holy Spirit burn the truth of the goodness of God deep upon our hearts just now. In Jesus' name.

The world is made up of two kinds of people. Those who are trusting in themselves and those who have learned to put their trust in God.

What a vast difference it makes in my whole outlook on life when I learn to just place my life and the circumstances of my life into God's hands, trusting in his goodness, knowing that he knows me and that he is working in my life his purpose and that it is good. Oh, how that helps me. Oh, how that helps me. Oh, how that helps me. Oh, how that helps me. Oh, how that helps me to face those difficult situations, those hard places.

Maybe you've been trusting in yourself, but today you've come because you've run out of any place to turn. You've exhausted your own resources and you're needing help. Thank God he brought you here. You've come to the right place because God wants you to. He wants to help you today. He is a stronghold for those who trust in him. I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room. The pastors will be back there to meet with you and to pray with you and to help you to enter into that stronghold, that place of strength in Christ Jesus.

The prayer room is on your far right, the door in the corner that goes behind the block wall. May the Lord bless and guide you through the week. May you be strengthened by the power of his Holy Spirit in your inner man day by day. May God grant to you great victories in your own personal life and a deepening of your relationship with him. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pi4RAYypE1o)