# 156 The Days of Noah, Matthew 24:36-49 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** 3m1-nLej2Zc
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3m1-nLej2Zc

This morning we'd like you to turn with us to Matthew 24, beginning with verse 36. We'll be taking a full study of these signs of the coming of Christ and what will happen when He returns in the study tonight. But this morning we'd like to sort of concentrate on this one area. As Jesus is declaring to His disciples of His coming again, He declares, And knew not until the flood came and took them all away, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.

Jesus, in the final week, had come to the temple. This is the day after His triumphant entry. It is now Monday. And He returned to the temple with His disciples. And in chapter 22 of Matthew, we read how, that the Pharisees had come and challenged Him with questions. And finally He put them to silence. But then in chapter 23, He began to talk about the evils of that whole religious system. And He began to pronounce the woes upon the scribes and the Pharisees. And in words of heavy condemnation, He denounced them. And fearsome and awesome are the, the words of Christ as He denounces these false religious teachers. We'll be going over these tonight.

And then Jesus sort of cried out to Jerusalem and to the people, declaring the judgment that was going to befall them because of their blindness. Their refusal to accept Him as Savior. Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Thou that stonest the prophets and all that God has sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thee together as a hen doth gather her chicks under her wings. But you would not. But now, desolation is determined. And the Lord declared the terrible things that would soon transpire. And then with His disciples, He got up to leave the temple, the religious system and all. And as they were walking away from His last visit to the temple, the disciples began to remark to Him concerning these great stones that Herod had used to build the temple. According to the records of Josephus, the historian, some of these stones that Herod had used in the building of the temple weighed up to a hundred and sixty tons. I stood last February in the archeological diggings that were held in Jerusalem. That go back towards the Antonio Fortress along the western wall. And I stood beside one stone that was ten feet high, ten feet thick and forty-seven feet long. Estimated to weigh a hundred and forty-five tons. And it is said by Josephus that these were the size of stones that Herod had used in the building of the temple. So as they were leaving the temple, the disciples remarking concerning these huge stones, calling Jesus' attention to them. And Jesus made a very remarkable prediction. He said, I say unto you, that the day will come when not one of these stones will be left standing upon another. Now He had just told the Jews, He had just left them and said, look, you are not going to see Me again until you see Me coming with glory in the majesty of the Father. And then, He made a promise. he makes this prediction, the second prediction, not one stone is going to be left standing among the other. And the disciples said, Lord, what will be the sign of these things and of your coming in the end of the age? So actually they're asking for twofold signs. First of all, the signs that would precede the destruction of the temple, and then the signs that would precede what he referred to his coming in glory in the majesty of the Father. And so in Matthew 24, Jesus began to tell them the various signs that they should be looking for that would precede his return. Luke tells us more of the signs that will be dealing with the destruction of the temple. Matthew concentrates on those signs that deal with his coming in the end of the age. Notice, there is no question concerning the rapture of the church because they, first of all, knew nothing of the church nor knew nothing of the rapture of the church. The question is strictly Jewish, and we're on Jewish ground, and it is of the coming of Christ in glory to establish God's kingdom upon the earth. And these signs are dealing with his coming in glory. Now, he first of all said there are going to be many false crimes. There are going to be many false crimes. There are going to be many false sins. There are going to be many false sins. There are going to be many false false sins. And there shall be wars and rumors of wars but don't be dismayed for all of these things will be but the end is not yet. Since he made that prediction, there have been thirteen years of war to every one year of peace. So he was quite right in saying, hey, there is always going to be, man's always going to be fighting with man. But then he went on to say but nations shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. In the Greek, this bespeaks of a worldwide state of war. And in 1914, the first such nation against nation, kingdom against kingdom, happened in World War I. And since that time, we have experienced World War II, and if you can believe the papers and the magazines and the generals and the people who are in authority, we are teetering on the brink of World War III. Along with these world wars, Jesus said there would be famines. It is estimated that annually some 15 million people die of causes related to starvation. On all of the death certificates, it doesn't say starvation, but the diseases and other things by which the person actually dies. It is estimated that 15 million of them are traceable to starvation, malnutrition.

Jesus also said there would be pestilences. You would understand that better had he translated it viruses. And we are aware of all of the interesting virus strains that seem to sweep the earth from winter to winter, many of them mutant-type strains that begin to degrade. These are the viruses that start to spread and defy the medicines that were used for their cure in previous years. Along with this, Jesus said earthquakes in diverse places. And then three places he warns about the false prophets and the false Christ. There would be many who would arise declaring that they were the messiah or they were the savior, or false prophets would arise, and we look at all of the clans that are there, cults and these men who have drawn and attracted people after themselves instead of after Jesus Christ. And then he declared that the gospel would be preached as a witness to all nations and then the end would come. It is interesting to me that where many of the nations of Europe up until now have held a very rigid control upon television and radio stations having only government stations so that the people can only get information disseminated by the government. You have really controlled information by the government even worse in Europe than you do here because you only have the government television to watch or the government radio to listen to. This is all breaking down. Very rapidly Norway has just recently allowed many radio stations to be licensed free radio stations in Norway and they are now opening licenses for television and this is happening over Europe because they realize that their monopoly on radio and television will soon be over because people living in neighborhoods are starting to buy these satellite dishes and they'll set it up in the neighborhood and maybe 10 families will plug into the one satellite. And they can watch TV from all over the world. They can listen to radio from all over the world and they no longer are restricted to just government radio and television and the government sees that they're no longer able to control the people's listening habits and so are beginning to open up many stations and all in Norway and in England is looking to this direction now and in many areas throughout Europe they realize that by satellite communication. Their control of what the people watch and hear will soon be over completely. And it will be interesting because many of these people who have never had the opportunity of really hearing the gospel of Christ because the government would not allow it to be proclaimed on public radio or television will now have the opportunity to hear the gospel that is being beamed up to these satellites and thus be able to hear the gospel. broadcast throughout the earth. Now it is also interesting that in Revelation chapter 14 he said I saw an angel flying through the midst of heaven proclaiming the everlasting gospel. Who knows but what John may have seen one of these satellite television communicators up there that is capable of broadcasting the gospel into all the world by satellite communication systems. So it's a very interesting and remarkable thing that has happened and of course through this the very capacity of broadcasting the gospel now unto all nations and into all of the world is exciting indeed and the possibility of Revelation's fulfillment is here. And then Jesus said you know that there will happen then the abomination of desolation which Daniel had prophesied. Now in the prophecy of Daniel chapter 9 the Lord said there are 77 year periods determined upon the nation of Israel and upon the city of Jerusalem. And from the time the commandment would go forth to restore and rebuild Jerusalem to the coming of the Messiah the Prince would be 69 sevens or 483 years which indeed was. But then he said very little about this 70th seven year period for it was going to be yet future and according to Jesus it was still yet future from his day and would relate to the time of his return. So there is a seven year period determined for the nation of Israel and determined for the city of Jerusalem that has not yet been fulfilled. And at the beginning of this period it will be marked by the world ruler that will come the prince of the people that shall come and will make a covenant with the nation of Israel. But in the middle of the seven year period he'll break the covenant and set up the abomination which will cause desolation. Now it would appear that this covenant will be the granting of the right to the Jews to rebuild their temple for this abomination of desolation is related to the rebuilt temple for Jesus here. Matthew 24 said when you see the abomination of desolation that Daniel spoke about standing in the holy place that is the holy place of the temple he said then flee to the wilderness. So there is a final seven year period that will be divided into two periods of three and a half years the first three and a half years. The establishing of the world rule under this man of sin the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem. But. Then after three and a half years. He comes. Establishes himself as God or declares that he is God and demands to be worshiped as God from the holy temple in Jerusalem. And at that point you've entered into the final three and a half year period. In fact the final one thousand two hundred and ninety days of man's history. For after the one thousand two hundred and ninety days the Lord will come. According to Daniel chapter nine. Twelve. So that. These days though as Jesus said here in Matthew twenty four for there shall be a great tribulation such as not was since the beginning of the world to this time nor ever will be the world at that time will go into the heaviest period of tribulation the world has ever known wars famines pestilences. Carnage like. You cannot believe when. The majority of the earth's population will be destroyed during that three and a half year period. You can get. Great detail of what's going to be happening during that three and a half year period in the book of Revelation beginning at chapter six and going through chapter eighteen. Great details are given of this great tribulation period the worst that the world has ever seen lasting. For. Three and a half years. Then Jesus said immediately after the tribulation of those days they're going to see the sign of the son of man coming with clouds and with great glory. So the coming of Christ his second coming will take place right after this great period of tribulation lasting a thousand two hundred and ninety days. And at that point Matthew twenty four. He. Said and he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds and from one end of heaven to the other. Obviously not the church. And people say why do you say it is not the church because Jesus is only reiterating predictions that were already made in the Old Testament that related to Israel. Going back to Deuteronomy. Chapter. Thirty. And. Verse. Three and four. He declares. Then the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity have compassion upon thee and will return and gather thee from all of the nations whether the Lord thy God scattered thee and if there be any of yours that are driven out into the outmost parts of heaven. From there the Lord thy God will gather they notice they shall gather them from the four winds from one end of heaven to the other. Obvious. Reference. To. Deuteronomy. Chapter thirty verse four. And then in Isaiah. Chapter twenty seven. And verses twelve and thirteen. And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall beat off from the channel of the river under the stream of Egypt and ye shall be gathered one by one all ye children of Israel. And it shall come to pass in that day that the great trumpet shall be blown and so here the sound of a trumpet a great. Sound. Of. Of a trumpet obviously referring to Isaiah chapter thirty verses three and four and once more Isaiah chapter eleven and verse twelve the Lord declares and he shall set up a sign for the nations and shall assemble the outcast of Israel and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth or from the four winds and so this will be the gathering together that has been predicted in God's word. Of the nation of Israel back to establish God's kingdom when Jesus returns now Jesus then began to say to his disciples but you don't know the day or the hour it's all going to happen. Any man who pretends to have some kind of a divine revelation where he with his calculator is figured out the day or the hour that Jesus is going to come and take home his church he's got to be kidding himself and those who listen to him are deceived. Jesus said you don't know the day or the hour I don't know the day or the hour the angels of heaven don't know the day or the hour only the father does. And yet. Guys like Mr Miller back in eighteen hundred. Fifty or so. Had his little math book out and got out the Bible he says now this doesn't mean a day it means a year and using a year to a day calculations calculated that the Lord was coming in eighteen fifty seven had the date all set. And had his people out in white robes on a mountain Zion in Indiana waiting for the Lord to come in after two weeks they got hungry and came back home. A guy by the name of Willie Smith. Predicted the day in the hour April first. Nineteen eighty. I thought that it was too bad his name was Smith but secondly. I thought the date that he chose was quite appropriate April first. And anyone who believed him. Belongs in that. Can. Be in that category. And then last year some pastor in Tucson. Had figured out the very day the Lord was coming June twenty ninth last year and then when he didn't come he said oh I've miscalculated by forty days and. Repredicted and still it didn't happen Jesus said you don't know the day or the hour because. As it was in the days of Noah. So shall it be at the coming of the son. Of man. Now we read in. The book of Genesis the things that were happening at the time of the days of Noah first of all. There was a population explosion. And it came to pass when men began to multiply. Upon the face of the earth the time of great population explosion. It took until eighteen fifty seven. There abouts they don't know exactly what year. Was but somewhere around eighteen fifty seven eighteen sixty seven. The earth's population finally. Grew to one. Billion people. And so for the first time. Since at least the time of the flood. The population had grown to one. Billion people living on the earth. At the same time. But by nineteen thirty five. The earth's population. Had increased to the second. Billion. And by nineteen thirty five there were two billion people living on the earth. At the same time. And then by nineteen sixty five. Within thirty years another billion people. Upon the earth. So that in nineteen sixty five there were then three billion inhabitants. Living on the earth at one time. And by nineteen eighty. Four billion people. Living upon the earth it took all the way from the time of noah. Till eighteen fifty seven or so for the first billion but it only took. From nineteen sixty five to nineteen eighty for the last billion people you talk about. People began to multiply on the face of the earth. Secondly. It was a time of tremendous. Demonic activity. Occultic activity. Spiritism. For the sons of god saw the daughters of men. That they were fair and there began to be. All kinds of. Spiritist activities. Thirdly the lord said the wickedness of man was great. Today. I am appalled. At the wickedness. Of man. I have dealt. With scores. Of little girls. Eight nine ten. Eleven twelve. Who are being sexually abused by their fathers. Or stepfathers. It is almost epidemic. This past week in dealing. With. A situation where we were ministering to about a hundred little junior high school girls. So many of them. That after the lesson came up and shared the tragedy. Of being sexually abused by their fathers or stepfathers. I'm just naive enough that this still absolutely shocks me. And I'm certain that I'm only seeing the tip of the iceberg. Because number one a lot of little girls won't confess to it. They're too ashamed. And those that. Do confess to it. Are just a small number of the total that is happening to. But the fact that that small number is so great. I'm dealing with scores of them. You just wonder how widespread is this wickedness. The taking advantage. Of a little child. I had a little girl this last week say. What should you do if when you go over to a friend's house. They're always. Taking drugs. Around you. And they're always trying to get you to take drugs too. I said just stay away from that friend's house. Don't go near there. She said but it's my mother. And I go there on visitation. I thought oh God. What do you do. These children are being exposed to things. In our society. That they do not have the emotional maturity. Or the ability to cope with. Damage. Tremendous psychological damage is being done. To these children. Life long. Emotional mental. Torment is being. Fostered by these. Beastly activities against these little children. Creating emotional and psychological scars. That will be with them their entire life. I cannot imagine. The wickedness. Wickedness of man was great. Said the imagination. Of his thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The movies. How aptly that describes them today. As men are expressing the imaginations of their hearts. Evil continually. The popular novels. Television. Popular music. The music that the kids are listening. The lyrics. Somebody brought me by a couple of records the other day. And they said look. We just think you ought to know what's being said in the records. And after you listen to it. I would suggest they said that you just destroy the records. It's so filthy. But you should know what the kids are listening to today. Hey I didn't know it. I can't stand the. The beat and the noise. To listen to that stuff. And so you know say. Hey. Turn that thing. Go in your room. Close the doors you know. And listen to that junk. Don't bother me with it. But hey you better pay attention to what they're listening to. The ideas that are being planted in this fertile soil of their mind. All of the things that they can't go to the store. And buy a quart of milk without seeing these filthy magazines. And yet they are not old enough to be able to deal with the emotions. And the stimulus. And the arousal. That goes on with all of this kind of stuff. It is reported that over a hundred thousand ten year old girls had abortions last year. Ten years old. God help these children. My heart breaks when I think of what they have to grow up with. Of what we've allowed to come into this society in which we live. What we are exposing them to. And perhaps even some of you have. On or select television. In your own homes. The filth. The scum. That children are exposed to. God help us. No wonder. No wonder the world is in such a mess. As it was in the days of Noah. For in the days of Noah the imagination of the thoughts of man's heart was only evil continually. And as the end result violence covered the earth. Have you ever read of so many violent crimes in your life? Before? Horrible crimes of violence. So much and so often. That they just don't even print them all anymore. Because it's no longer news. Because it's happening so much. Surely these are the signs of his coming. Because. Any society cannot continue to exist. When the planks. The moral planks upon which it stands. Have become so rotted. That they can't. They can no longer hold up. The society is doomed. It's destined to fall. Now Jesus said in the time of Noah they were taken by total surprise. You don't know. When I'm coming. As it was in the days of Noah. Hey they were going right on. Life. You know it's just going to continue. They were eating and drinking. They were marrying and giving in marriage. Business as usual. Until the day that the flood came and carried them away. They weren't even aware of the impending judgment of God. That was hanging over their heads. And so today the world so oblivious. To the impending judgment of God. Righteous judgment that must come from a righteous God. Upon this sinful corrupt society. And the people won't know until it's happened. Is exactly what the Lord is saying. As it was in the days of Noah. So. Throughout the remainder of this chapter. And into chapter 25. He is giving you stories and parables. All of them saying. In essence. You don't know when I'm coming. So you better be watching. You don't know when I'm coming. So you better be ready. For in such a time as you think not. I am coming. Therefore watch. Be ready. And that's the continual emphasis that he is making. As he talked to his disciples about his return. Question is. Are you ready? The Lord is coming soon. Of that I know. When he's coming. I don't know. But Paul said of the times and the seasons. You have no need that I write unto you. Because. You know perfectly well. The coming of the Lord is as a thief in the night. But you are not the children of darkness. That that day should overtake you as a thief. You're children of the light. Watch ye therefore. So we pray. God as we see the corrupting. Decaying society around us. Men. Men being drowned. In their own corruption. Felt. Oh Jesus we pray come quickly. May thy kingdom come and thy will be done here on earth. Even as it is in heaven. God we as lot find our righteous soul vexed. By the evil society around us. The corruption. God we pray for our children. We pray for our grandchildren. They're being exposed. To all. The filth of this society. Oh Jesus come quickly. Spare them. Keep their little hearts pure. Jesus protect them. Jesus surround them with your love. God I pray for these little girls. That came up to me this last week. And told me of the abuse. That they're experiencing. God somehow. Free them God from these ungodly men. From this wickedness. Jesus help them Lord. Come quickly Jesus. Oh God may our hearts. Be made pure by the work of thy word. And by thy spirit working in our lives. That we might be ready. When you return in Jesus name Father. They that were ready went in. Faithful words. They'll soon be coming to pass. Will you be going in or will you be left. If you're not sure. If you don't know if you're ready or not to meet the Lord. I would encourage you go back to the prayer room. And there. Just open up your heart to God. If you've been caught up in the wickedness of this world. If you've let down the guard if you've been allowing. Your mind to be filled. With these corrupting influences I. Would encourage you go back there and just. Get a bath. Let God's word just come in and begin to wash. And cleanse from all of the filth and defilement of this world. In which we live. God help you to start living pure. Righteous holy lives. Don't be a part. Of the fallen corrupted society around your else you will fall with that society. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus Christ. And may you be the salt of the earth may you be a light shining in this dark world. In Jesus name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3m1-nLej2Zc)