# 243 The Great Mystery, 1 Timothy 3:16 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** CxU-DdAD7Ko
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxU-DdAD7Ko

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to 1st Timothy 3.16. Here Paul declares, without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in all the world, and received up into glory.

This mystery of godliness, the word godliness is actually a contraction. Lengthened out, it is god-likeness. You see, God wants you to be just like him. That's God's desire, God's purpose for you. Now, God is pure, therefore he wants you to be pure. God is love, he wants love to be the dominant trait of your life. God is holy, he wants you to be holy. God is light, he wants you to walk in the light. God is patient, God is long-suffering, God is kind, he wants you to be patient, long-suffering, and kind. God wants you to be like him. Paul said, great is the mystery of godliness. He said, what do you mean by being like God? Why? Because we've tried to be like God. Have you ever tried to be like God? I have. In fact, more than that, I want to be like God. With all my heart, I want to be like God. But in spite of the fact that I want to be like God and I've tried to be like God, there are many ways in which I am unlike God today.

I get upset at things. that God isn't upset over, and therefore I'm not like Him.

I sometimes just get so frustrated with people, and God's not frustrated with them. I get angry at people that God isn't angry with. I dislike people that God loves.

So though I desire to be like God, and I want to be like God, and I try to be like God, I so oftentimes find myself failing to be like Him. Great is the mystery of being like God.

But this mystery is solved, Paul tells us here, in the incarnation of Jesus Christ.

So great is the mystery of being like God, but to solve that mystery, God was, manifested in the flesh. That is a straightforward, strong declaration that Jesus Christ is God. The statement is just very straightforward, very clear. God was manifest in the flesh. Those who try to deny that Jesus is God have to somehow totally obliterate this verse. For it declares, God was manifest in the flesh. Now, this should be expected, because the prophet Isaiah, speaking for God, said, behold, I will give you a sign. A virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. God was. Manifested in the flesh. Another prophecy of Isaiah. For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called, wonderful counselor, the mighty God. God was manifested in the flesh. His name is the mighty God. The everlasting father, the prince of peace. That child that was born of Mary, the son that was given to us by God.

John tells us, in the beginning was the word. The word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God, and all things were made by him. And without him was not, anything made that was made. And then further down he said, and the word became flesh, and dwelt among us. Let's leave off some of the intervening verses. Hit just the highlight of the truth, and it is this. In the beginning was the word, the word was with God, and the word was God, and the word became flesh, and dwelt among us. God was manifested, in the flesh. And so this mystery of being like God is solved first of all by God being manifested in the flesh. But then we are told he was justified in the spirit. Or, as some translations, he was proved to be righteous in the spirit. When Jesus was born, when he was baptized, before he began his public ministry, he was immediately after his baptism led by the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And he came through with flying colors. He did not yield or succumb to the temptations of the devil, and thus he was proved to be righteous in the spirit, in the spirit, in the spirit, in the spirit, in the spirit, in the spirit, in that he was obedient unto God through the temptation and was faithful unto God. We are told by Jesus in the 16th chapter of John that when the Holy Spirit comes into the world, he will testify of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Of sin, Jesus said, because they don't believe in me. You know, that's the worst sin any man could ever commit. Did you know that that is the only sin that a man is to be judged for? Because they don't believe in me. Jesus said, he that believes in me is not condemned, but he who doesn't believe in me is condemned already because he has not believed in the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light has commanded, which is to come into the world, but they will not come to the light. That's the condemnation. That's the point of judgment. Of sin, Jesus said, because they don't believe in me. Of righteousness, he said, because I ascend unto my Father. Now, what does the ascension of Jesus Christ tell us about righteousness? The Holy Spirit is going to testify of righteousness, Jesus said, because I'm ascending to my Father. This, the ascension of Jesus Christ into heaven is the witness of the Holy Spirit, or the witness of God to man, that this is the righteousness that I will receive into glory. Now, do you want to go to heaven? Do you want God to receive you? Then God is declaring, this is the righteousness I will receive. You have to be as righteous as Jesus to be accepted into heaven. Anything less will not do. Now, that should immediately cause all of us to quit trying in ourselves and to opt for something different, if there is any alternative. And thank God there is the alternative, that through believing in Jesus Christ, God imputes to me the righteousness which is of Christ through faith. So his ascension is again the proof of the Holy Spirit, of his righteousness. And so God was manifested in the flesh and proved to be righteous in the Spirit. He goes on to say, he was seen of angels. We remember that immediately after the temptation of Satan, it says the angels came and ministered to him. Again in the gospels it tells us that while he was praying in the garden of Gethsemane, agonizing, his sweat becoming as blood dropping to the ground, that the angels of God came and ministered to him. He was seen of angels. Now, some commentators suggest that prior to the incarnation that the angels had never seen God. Now we know that the Bible says, no man hath seen God at any time. But there is also the suggestion that perhaps outside of the incarnation the angels have not seen God. In the sixth chapter of 1 Timothy here, Paul tells us that God dwells in a light that cannot be approached by man. One of those who had a vision of God saw this glorious light. It is suggested that the glory of God is so brilliant, the outshining of the glory of God, so brilliant that in looking all you would see is the light. You wouldn't see God, but only the light that emanates from His holy being. Just as if you would look into a very bright light, all you can see is the light that emanates. You don't see the little bulb that is there. You don't see the filament within the bulb that is heated to the point of incandescence. The form is obliterated by just the brightness of the light that you observe. So that with the angels, the brightness of God is so great that as they look all they see is the glorious brightness that shines out from God. But they see not the form. And they did not see it until God was manifested in the flesh, in the person of Jesus Christ. It says, He was seen of angels. And then we are told that He was preached unto the Gentiles. When Paul was on the road to Damascus and Jesus apprehended him, He said, Paul, I am sending you unto the Gentiles that you might deliver them from the power of darkness and from the power of Satan that they might become the children of God. From darkness to light. Jesus said to His disciples, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, all of creation. So He was preached to the Gentiles. And then it says, He was believed on in the world. And so throughout the world today we find those who believe in Jesus Christ. In a sense, as far as Jerusalem is concerned, we're living in sort of the uttermost parts of the earth. We're almost a half a world away from Jerusalem. And here we are gathered together this day as believers in Jesus Christ. Believed on in the world. And as many as believe to them gave He the power to become the sons of God even to those who believed upon His name. And so He was believed upon in the world. And here we are as a witness and a testimony to that fact. And then finally He said He was received up into glory. Now when Jesus ascended into heaven the cycle was then completed. He said, I have come from the Father and I go to the Father. So beginning with God coming down becoming man and now returning to the Father in the return to the Father the cycle is complete. And His mission on earth had been completed. His mission on earth was to manifest God to man. Jesus said, He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. He said He came to manifest the Father. No man has seen God at any time but the only begotten Son. He has manifested God. So His purpose in coming is to let us know what God is like. To manifest God to us. And He so accurately manifested God to us to reject Him is tantamount to rejecting God. Jesus said, He who receives not me receives not the one who sent me. Receiving Jesus is equated with receiving God. You cannot receive one without the other. He who hath not the Son hath not the Father also. He so manifested God to us. He was God manifested in the flesh. And so accurately did He manifest God to man that the receiving of Him is equivalent to receiving God. Loving Him is equivalent to loving God. He that loveth me or He that loveth the Father loves also Him that is begotten of the Father. And He who loves me, Jesus said, loves the Father also. There are people that are constantly trying to separate Jesus from God. And they say, well I believe in God but I'm really not sure about Jesus. Jesus Himself said, If you have not the Son, you have not the Father. He came to manifest God to men. He came also to redeem the world back to the Father. And that He accomplished by taking upon Himself the guilt of our sin and dying in our place. And in His death for us He redeemed us from our life of sin that we might become the children of God. Now His mission accomplished. Having manifested God to man, having made redemption for the world, He now returned back to God. He was received up into glory. His mission was fully accomplished. Before returning to the Father, Jesus said to His disciples, I will not leave you without help, but I will send another Helper, even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it doesn't see Him nor does it know Him, but you know Him for He dwells with you and shall be in you. Again Jesus said to His disciples, It is imperative that I go away because if I go not away then the Holy Spirit cannot come. But if I go away then I will send the Holy Spirit unto you. Jesus again said, I will pray the Father. He will give you another Comforter that He may abide with you forever. So the coming of the Holy Spirit upon the church proved that Jesus indeed did ascend unto the Father. And the early church used that as the proof of the resurrection of Jesus and of His ascension into glory, the fact that He did keep His word and He sent the Holy Spirit and the power of the Holy Spirit upon the church. And this was the proof that He did indeed rise from the dead and ascended into glory. He kept His promise. Now just before Jesus ascended into heaven the very last words of Jesus to His disciples were, You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be witnesses of Me, both in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. You will receive power and you shall be witnesses. That is, the power to be the witness. You see, when we read the book of Revelation it declares that Jesus, Jesus was the true and faithful witness. You want to know what God is like? Look at Jesus. He is a true and faithful witness of God. God was manifested in the flesh. Now, great is this mystery of being like God because we can't be it in our own strength. We can't be like God with our own resolves or determinations or desires. It takes more than that. To be like God takes the empowering of the Holy Spirit. That Holy Spirit that dwelt in Jesus and now has come to dwell in us. For if the same Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He's going to make you alive by His Spirit dwelling within you. By the power of the Spirit dwelling in me, I now have the power to be like God. That is the purpose of the Holy Spirit coming. That He might conform me into the image of Jesus Christ and that the purposes of God might be fulfilled for it was God's purpose that you be like Him. When God first created man, He created man in His image and like Him in His likeness. Man fell from that, but it is God's purpose to restore man back into His likeness. And so the Holy Spirit working within my life day by day is making me every day more like Jesus Christ. I am becoming more loving. I am becoming kinder, more patient, more long-suffering. That's the work of the Spirit within me. That's the purpose of the work of the Spirit within me is to make me like God. Great is the mystery of being like God. The mystery was solved by God sending His Son to manifest God to man and the Son in turn being received into glory sending the Spirit to dwell within our lives to give us the capacity and the power to be like God. Now, I would not be so foolhardy as to stand here before you and say, friends, I have arrived. I am like God. If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. No way. Not yet. He is working though in me. I'm more like God this week than I was last week. Much more than I was last year. And day by day as I yield my life to the Holy Spirit and to that power of God's Spirit He is changing me. He is conforming me. He is making me into that same image. Paul said, And we with open faces as we behold the glory of the Lord are being changed from glory to glory into the same image. He still has a long way to go with me, but one morning I'm going to wake up, take a deep breath, and not choke. The air will be pure and clear and I will be in His presence like Him. John said, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doesn't yet appear what we're going to be, but we know that when He appears we're going to be like Him. You see, that was the purpose of the incarnation. The coming of Jesus Christ. To manifest to us what God is and then to give to us the capacity and the power ourselves to be like God. And that is what the Spirit is doing in our lives each day as we surrender and yield ourselves to Him. He is conforming us into that glorious image. So the mystery of being like God, which to the world remains a mystery, is now revealed unto us. And the secret is Christ in you. The power of His Spirit within you. Your hope of glory. David the Psalmist said, And I shall be satisfied when I awake in your likeness. And I'm not going to be satisfied until God has completed the work by His Spirit within my life. And I am like Him. Standing in His presence. Dwelling with Him in His eternal kingdom. World without end. And what a glorious world that will be when we all love like God. When we are all pure like Him. When we are all conformed into the image of Jesus. Father, we thank You for the Holy Spirit today and for that work of Your Spirit within our lives as He is conforming us into the image of Jesus. Lord, continue Your work. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

So the great mystery of being like God is solved. We have no excuse. God has given to us the capacity and the power by His Holy Spirit and is making us like Himself. How I love that work of God in my life. How I love to watch God do for me what I couldn't do for myself. How I love to see God working in me. Molding me. Conforming me into that beautiful image of Jesus. Giving me His love. Giving me His understanding. Giving me His patience. His good. Oh may God just continue to work in each of us. May He work in our lives this week. May we take one giant step towards that light. This week. Maybe you haven't even started the path yet. The Spirit of God has spoken to your heart this morning. You've had the desire. You want to be more like God but you just have had a miserable time with your old nature. So impatient. So uptight. You'd like to just turn your life over to Him today. That His Spirit might begin to work in you. I would encourage you. You can take one giant step in the right direction that will determine your eternal destiny. God bless you. And enrich you in all things in the love of Jesus Christ.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxU-DdAD7Ko)