# 198 The Nearness of God, Acts 17 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** 87GHT2qF9Zo
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87GHT2qF9Zo

This morning, we'd like to draw your attention to the 17th chapter of the book of Acts. Paul had received a vision in which the Lord called him to carry the gospel to Europe. While he was at Troas, in the vision, he saw a man from Macedonia, upper Greece, saying, come over and help us. And so Paul came into the area of Europe, in Greece, where there were mixed responses to his preaching of the gospel. He preached in Philippi, and many people believed, but yet others stirred up the magistrates, and they beat him and threw him in jail. They went next to Thessalonica, where again there were those who received the gospel and believed, but others who were plotting to arrest them there. And so Paul went on to Berea, where he preached, and then again they stirred up problems in Berea, and they were going to take Paul. So the brethren decided that Paul should leave and go on down to Athens for an R&R. Well, they strengthened the new believers in Berea. So Paul left Timothy and Luke and Silas in the churches of Thessalonica and Berea, and he headed down to Athens. Athens had passed the zenith of its glory.

It was about 400 years after the time of Socrates, and Athens was on the decline. Yet it was still the center for the Greek culture. It was still the center for the Greek culture in the world. There were two basic philosophies that had survived at this time among the Athenians. One was the philosophy of the Epicureans and the other the Stoics. Both of them at this point, though, were in a degraded form. Epicurus had taught that pleasure was the chief good of life. But Epicurus, in his teaching, said that the more complex our lives become, the less we can really enjoy them. So in order to really have a life of pleasure, you must have a life that is very uncomplicated. The simple life is what he espoused. And of course, one of the followers, Diogenes, was said to be a very happy and content man, although all he possessed was just a tub to sit in. But that's all he needed. Just a simple life. I don't need an elaborate home. And all I have is my tub and I am happy. Alexander the Great was remarkably impressed by Diogenes. When he came upon this man who was so content and so satisfied with so little, Alexander the Great was intrigued because he had conquered the world but was still not satisfied. He was still reaching out for more. And as he was intrigued by Diogenes, he said, You are my master. I will be your disciple and I will follow you completely. And Diogenes said, If you are to be my disciple, carry these two dead fish in your cloak for two weeks. Alexander the Great became angered. He said, Carry dead, smelly fish around? You've got to be crazy. No way would I do that. And Diogenes said, Such devotion dissipated over two smelly fish. You know, sometimes I hear people avow their great love for the Lord. Oh, I love the Lord. I'm going to follow. I'll be his disciple. You know, it's amazing what little things can dissipate such great devotion. But now the Epicurean philosophy had degraded. By the time Paul came to Athens, the Epicurean philosophy had taken the concept pleasure is the chief good of life, and they sought to live solely for sensual pleasures. And then they began to develop intensities of pleasures, seeking to measure pleasure by the intensity of the pleasure you receive from a particular experience. So they would put a bit of sugar on their tongue, and they would just sit there holding the sugar on their tongue, seeking to measure the intensity of the pleasure that it brought to their brains. Oh, that hits a nine, you know. Pretty good. And the ultimate result of this Epicurean philosophy was, of course, men who were given totally over to their lust. The Stoics, the other chief philosophy at the time of Paul, were originally, the Stoic philosophy said, virtue is the chief good. But gradually, the Stoics began to declare that you've got to be unfeeling towards everything. Our problem is that our emotions get in our way of good judgment. And so often, because of our emotions, we're not able to actually determine what is the right course to take. We're guided by emotions. Therefore, you must deny your feelings, you must deny your emotions, and you must develop that unfeeling attitude towards everything. You're not to have any kind of an emotional experience. And so they would practice their Stoicism by taking and pinching themselves very hard, but yet seeking not to show any feeling towards it, just learning to accept pain, learning to accept everything without feeling, without showing any kind of an emotion. Now, the ultimate result of the Stoic philosophy was atheism, whereas the ultimate result of the Epicurean philosophy was pantheism. And so you had this interesting admixture in Athens of the pantheist and of the atheist. Now, these people had nothing more to do than to stand around just talking daily, trying to discover some new or strange thing. Paul came to this pagan city, and because of the pantheism, the city was filled with temples erected to different gods and goddesses. And all throughout the city, down the block, you would see all of these statues that had been created by the artist that were to represent the various gods that they worshipped. There were altars. There were statues. A city as Paul, as is described here, Paul saw a city wholly given to idolatry. I mean, it was just as filled as any place could be with religious people worshipping idols, different idols, different concepts. So the god Zeus and the god Athene, goddess Athene, and Apollo, and on down the line, god of wrath, the god of pleasure, the god of joy, the god of the arts, and everything you could think of, they deified. Made a god for every, all of your feelings that you might feel, various emotions that you might feel, a god to represent that emotion, and thus worshipped. Paul saw this city wholly given over to idolatry, and it stirred him. He was just stirred by it. And he just couldn't keep quiet. In the marketplace, he began to dispute with some of these Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. And because he was talking about some strange god they had not heard of before, they invited him up to this place on Mars Hill in order that he might give really a speech to them of this strange god that he was setting forth. And so Paul was brought up to the Areopagus. And there gathered the Stoics and the Epicureans to listen to him. And in verse 22 of chapter 17, as Paul stood there in the midst of Mars Hill, he said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious. The translation too superstitious is not a good translation. He's not really insulting them. You don't begin to try to persuade a group of people by insulting them. He is just recognizing that you are very religious people. For as I've passed by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription to the unknown god, whom therefore you ignorantly worship. But I would like to declare him unto you. What did Paul declare to them of that unknown god? First of all, he declared that they were worshipping him, but they were worshipping him ignorantly. They had acknowledged the existence of this god, though they confessed they didn't know him. They knew that he must exist. Beyond all of the idols and all of the gods and goddesses that they worshipped, they realized that there must be this god that we don't know. Interesting that there was only an altar. There could not be an idol to the unknown god, because if he is an unknown god, then who would know what he looked like? And so just the altar to the unknown god that men acknowledged existed, but they were really ignorant of him. Now later on, Paul tells them in this speech that there was a time when God overlooked or winked at this ignorance. But no more. God no longer overlooks the ignorance of man. There was a time when the unknown god wasn't very knowable to the world. He had revealed himself to the nation of Israel and to the fathers of Israel by their prophets. But Israel had kept his existence a pretty close-guarded secret from the rest of the world. And so there was a time when God overlooked the ignorance of man, of his existence, but no more. Because now God has clearly and fully revealed himself through Jesus Christ. Paul tells them that this unknown god that they worshipped ignorantly was in reality the creator and the author of life. He gives life unto all, Paul declared in verse 25. In verse 24, He is the God that made the world and all of the things that are therein. Now, their artist had created for the people their concepts of the various gods whom they worshipped. And there was the statue of Zeus, the statue of Athene, the statue of Muses, the statues of Phaethus and the various gods that they worshipped who were created by God. They were created by the artist and they were all over the place. They were these marble statues and gold and silver statues were all over the place, but they stood there in silence because they were the creation of man. And because they were the creation of men, they were not alive. They were just statues. They were just idols that were being worshipped by the people. So there's quite a contrast here between the gods that they were worshipping which were the works of men's hands and the unknown God whom they worshipped who created men's hands and created and gave life unto men. A lifeless God versus the life-giving God. The next thing Paul declared concerning Him was that He was the Lord over the heavens and the earth. This unknown God whom they worshipped ignorantly was in reality Lord, sovereign over the heavens and over the earth. Now, there may be opposing forces to Him existing, but they only exist because He allows them to exist. He can at any time cut off their existence. They only exist because He pleases to allow them to exist that they might fulfill a portion of His purpose. But they only exist at His pleasure. And there is coming a day when He is going to judge all things and those which are opposed to Him will be cut off. Paul went on to say that this unknown God did not dwell in temples made with hands. Now, there on the Areopagus, right directly below Paul, was the theseum at that end of the Agora. And you can almost throw a stone from Mars Hill and hit the theseum down below. It is well preserved, still stands to the present day, and it is a marvelous, marvelous demonstration of the perfection of architecture. This temple, the Doric temple actually, the theseum. At the upper end, or the other end of the Agora, which is all down below you and seen very readily from Mars Hill, was that great temple to Juno, of which the massive ruins stand today. From Paul's vantage point on Mars Hill, just above him was the Parthenon, there at the Acropolis. And in the Parthenon, that huge temple built to Athene, the goddess of the Greeks. And so they were surrounded by these marvelous, beautiful marble temples. And Paul is saying, the unknown God, who fills the universe, who has created all things, he doesn't dwell in these temples that are made with hands. As massive and as grand as these structures are, they cannot contain the true God. Neither, Paul said, is he worshipped with men's hands. That is, by the artistic capacities of man. As Paul said, as though he needed anything. This unknown God, that I'm declaring unto you, is totally self-sufficient. He really doesn't need anything from man. Contrary to the concept that some of these present-day evangelists are trying to convince you of, that God is bankrupt and about ready to go out of business, you immediately bail him out and send in your support this week. Paul said, no, not that he needs anything from man. Paul next says, concerning this God, that he is very close to all of us. I pray that God today might help us by the Holy Spirit to become very keenly aware of how close God is to all of us. I think that's one of the greatest weaknesses in the Christian walk and in the Christian's life, is his failure to recognize just how close God is to him. Paul said, he is close to all of us, for in him we live, we move, we have our being. I'm surrounded by him. I cannot escape him. The Psalmist said, if I go forward, you are there. If I go backward, you are there. If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I descend into hell, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and I fly away to the uttermost parts of the sea, even there, you surround me. I cannot escape you. We need to become more conscious of that presence of God, that eminence of God, that all prevailing presence, no matter where I am, God is there. When Belshazzar, the king of Babylon, had made a feast for his lords and had ordered the gold and silver vessels that were taken by his grandfather Nebuchadnezzar from the temple in Jerusalem, he ordered these gold and silver vessels to be filled with wine to serve the party guest. And as they were drinking, he began to praise the gods of gold and the gods of silver. Suddenly, there appeared a hand on the wall and on the plaster, words were written, Mene, Mene, Tekel, Eupharsin. No one understood what the words meant. Everybody tried to give their ideas. No one could come up with the answers. And finally, Daniel was brought in. And he said, O Belshazzar, God has given to you the kingdom of your grandfather, whom God raised up and revealed himself to, causing him to realize that there is no God like the true and the living God who establishes those whom he will upon the thrones of the earth. But this God, in whose hand your very breath is, you have not glorified, but have praised the gods of gold and silver. Notice how close God was to him. The God in whose hand your very breath is. God is so close to you that you are dependent upon him for your next breath. The God in whose hand your very breath is. Isn't it a shame that some men are such fools that they will take that very breath and use it to curse God, to speak evil against him? The very breath for which they must depend upon him to exist, they will use that very breath to curse his existence. And yet I'm surrounded by God. How I need to realize that. My whole life is encompassed by him. Paul went on to tell them in verse 26 that God has determined the times and appointed the bounds of their existence. God has set the boundaries for my life. He's determined the times and the boundaries of my existence. My life is totally bounded by God on every side. The interesting thing, there are some people who have spent their entire lives running from God. From the day they were able to think for themselves, they began to run from God. But you know, you could have spent your entire life running from God as fast as you could go, but yet he is so close to you. You may have gone a long way out, but it isn't far back. He is as close to you as just, oh God, I'm sorry, forgive. Paul said God is near unto each of us. He is as close as our mouths. Because all you have to do is confess. With your mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's how close God is to each of us. He's just a whisper away. You may have run so far from him, but you're not really far from him at all. You're very close. All you have to do is turn, and that's what Paul said. God has commanded now men everywhere are to repent or are to turn. There may have been a time in history when God winked or overlooked the ignorance, the ignorance of man concerning himself. But that time has passed. There's no excuse for you not knowing the true and the living God. For he is knowable to every man. And so here was Paul in the city of Athens, a city that was filled with idols. But what does it tell us when we see a man worshiping an idol? It tells us that that man is, first of all, aware of God's existence and that he does feel a need of worshiping God. But it tells us that he is ignorant of the true and the living God who is the creator and sustainer of life. You all are worshiping something. We have become a sophisticated culture to where we don't really carve out little idols to represent deity, little idols to represent the god or goddess of pleasure. We don't carve out little idols to represent the god of power, Zeus. We don't carve out little idols to represent the intellect, the Athene. However, many people are worshiping these idols in their hearts. They're living for pleasure. They're living for power. These are the things that are the master passions of their lives. And they are ignorant of the true and the living God. But the unknown God has revealed himself. He needs not to be an unknown God any longer. And though he may have at one time overlooked the ignorance of man, no more. Now, God has commanded men everywhere, Paul said, to repent. For a day is coming in which he is going to judge through Jesus Christ, that one whom he sent and whom he proved by the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. At this point, in Paul's message, some of the Epicureans said, oh, come on. That's ridiculous. Resurrection from the dead. That's all. We've had it. Forget you. But others came to learn more. So men always have two responses. Some say, oh, forget that. I'm going to do my own thing. But there are always those that the Spirit of God is drawing into a deeper, fuller relationship with the living God.

Shall we pray?

Father, draw us nearer by thy Holy Spirit. Thank you, Father, that you have revealed yourself through Jesus so that the once unknown God, the Lord of heaven and earth, has become the Lord of our lives. And he surrounds our lives. And he is in control of our destinies. And how thankful we are, Father, that we are indeed your offspring, children of God through faith in Jesus. And not that you have become our offspring, something that we have created. But Lord, you have created us, your children. Thank you, Lord. And I pray, Father, today that your Holy Spirit will just work in a very special way as men respond to the truth of the existence and of the nature and of the character of the true and the living God. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.

In the light of God's revelation of himself through Jesus Christ, you can either accept it or reject it. You can believe it or you can doubt it. You see, when God created you, he created you with the capacity of choice. God gave you the capacity to breathe. God gave you the air to breathe. It's sad when men take those very gifts of God and turn them against him and uses his breath to curse God or uses his choice to deny him. And yet, unfortunately, some do. But I pray today that if you're one of those that have been running from God, you'll realize that you haven't escaped him. He is surrounding you now. In him you live, you move, you have your being. He is in front of you. He is around you. And even now, his hand is upon you. Won't you just turn? God has commanded that men everywhere should just turn. Open your heart and life to him. If you'd like to really turn your life over to God today, I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room. The pastors will be back there to pray with you. And now may the Lord be with you. Watch over and keep you through this week. May his hand be upon your life in a very special way. The anointing of God's love and God's spirit. And may you just be led by the spirit through this week. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87GHT2qF9Zo)