# 26 The Serpent of Brass, Numbers 21:5-9 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** _arVC54pRpI
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_arVC54pRpI

This morning, let's turn to chapter 21 and begin our lesson in the fifth verse of Numbers chapter 21. Numbers 21, 5.

And the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, and neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth this light bread. And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and many people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray unto the Lord that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole, and it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten when he looks upon it shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.

I am convinced. I am convinced that complaining is a state of mind. That it is possible to have your mind set in a pattern of constant complaining. That that becomes a habit of your life and extremely difficult to break. There are some people that get to the place where they can see the bad in anything. It's just their mindset. It's just the way they are. They think. You bring up any issue. You say, Oh, you won the Irish sweepstakes. They're going to pay off $568,000. They say, Oh, that's horrible. Think of all the taxes I'm going to have. You know, they can see something to complain about in every issue of life. And this was the sin of Israel. One of the prevailing sins of the people was their constant complaining. Now, it is true they had something to gripe about. For 38 years, their main staple was manna. They've been eating this stuff now for 38 years there in the wilderness. And it was a very bland food. Not much flavor to it. Just a little bit of sweetness, but extremely mild. And it no doubt did become rather sickening after 38 years, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, manna. And it did become rather sickening after 38 years, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, manna. And it did become rather sickening after 38 years, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, manna. And I can understand they're getting tired of it and saying how that our soul loveth this light bread. We're sick of it. We're tired of it. And so they began to complain against this manna. But in reality, there was much to be thankful for in this manna. If they had not had the manna, they would have starved to death a long time ago. So they could have looked at it and said, Oh, thanks. Oh, thanks. Thank God for the manna this morning. If it weren't here, think of how hungry we would get. So inasmuch, there is something to perhaps gripe about. Yet, on the other hand, there was plenty to be thankful for in that God did provide them with the manna and kept them from starvation. It no doubt was extremely nutritious. It had all that they needed to sustain their lives. As far as vitamins and minerals and to keep them going. In fact, in Psalm 78, it says that God fed them with angels' food. So this manna was actually angels' food. But, you know, there are some people you give them angels' food and they can find something to gripe about. Now, it is true of every circumstance of our lives. No matter what happens to you, you can find something to gripe about. Or, no matter what happens to you, you can find something to be thankful for. And there are some people that have that beautiful capacity of seeing something good in everything. No matter what has happened, they can accept it, they take it, and they can flow with it. And they can see some potential good out of every situation. Where there are... Some people that can see potential danger or evil out of every situation. It's how you have set your mind. Your mind can be set in a pattern of thanksgiving. Or your mind can be set in a pattern of complaining. And it's your mindset. It becomes the pattern of your life itself. So that no matter what happens, you're thankful. You're happy. You see that God is going to work. You see that God is going to turn things out. Or no matter what happens, it's horrible. It's the end of the world. You're never going to make it beyond tomorrow. This is it. This is the end. And people live in those crisis disasters all the time. They go from one to the next. Life is just one continual disaster. Because that's the way they look at it. That's their mind frame. Is to expect the worst. And then you'll never be disappointed. But what people don't realize. Is that complaining is a sin. Now when the fiery serpents came into the camp. And began to bite the people. And they began to die. They recognized that this was a judgment of God. Because of their complaining. And they came to Moses and they said. We have sinned. Because we spoke against God. And against you. They recognized that their complaining. Was actually a sin. And they said. We have sinned. And God looked upon it as sin. Now the word of God tells us. Be thankful. For everything. But in everything. Give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Concerning you. Now if God has sort of ordered you. To be thankful. Then for you to be complaining. Or griping is a sin. And they recognized it as a sin. They came to Moses. And they said. We have sinned against God. And against you. Because we spoke against God. And they recognized the fact. That God looks upon complaining. Murmuring. Griping. As a sin. In a week or so. We're going to be celebrating Thanksgiving. For we have set aside. One day in the year. In which we said. Today. We're going to be thankful. I really feel that it would be much wiser. If we would set aside a national gripe date. One day of the year. In which we're going to air all of our gripes. And all of our complaints. And then the other 364. Will be thankful. We'll just go around. Thanking God for everything. But one day. Give you one day of griping. Every year. And God brought judgment into the camp. Because of their complaint. These deadly snakes. Began to strike the people. And they began to die. And they came to Moses. They confessed their sin. And so they said. Pray for us. Now it is interesting that when Moses prayed. God didn't just heal the people. He could have. God could have just caused the snakes to go. Just as he caused them to come. But he didn't do that. Instead he said to Moses. You make. Out of brass. A fiery serpent. And put it on a pole. In the center of the camp. And it shall come to pass. When every man has been. Bitten by one of these snakes. If he will look at the brass. Serpent there on the pole. He will be healed. And not die. So God gave really. A choice to the people. I'll provide for their healing. I'll provide for their forgiveness. I'll provide for their living. But they're going to have to do something. About it themselves. They're going to have to exercise. Their power of choice. You make this serpent of brass. Now brass is always. A symbol of judgment. As far as metals go. And the serpent is always. A symbol of sin. Now the people confessed. We have sinned. But the brass serpent. On the pole. Was the symbol. That God had judged. Their sins. So if you will just look at the brass serpent. On the pole. When you've been bitten by the snake. And as you're lying there dying. Just turn. And look at the brass serpent. On the pole. And you'll be healed. You'll not die. A man lying there. In convulsions on the ground. He has been bitten. By one of these snakes. And he's dying. And I run up to him. And I said. Hey friend. Look. Take a look. In the center of the camp. There's a brass snake. Up on a pole. Just look at it. Give me to look at that. When I don't understand it. Hey. I don't know how it works. But I know it does work. I've seen hundreds of people all around you. In your same condition. They were dying too. And they looked. And now they're all right. They're walking around. And they're in good shape. Yeah. But look at all those hypocrites. That are looking. And a guy dies. You say you fool. All you had to do was look. And you would have lived. That wasn't so hard. God didn't lay out some big trip. He made it so simple for you. You could have lived. So easily. All you had to do was look. At God's provision. And you would have lived. But you have chosen death. In your own folly. For whatever reasons. God looks upon man that way today. God cried out through Ezekiel. Turn ye. Turn ye. For why will ye die. Saith the Lord. Now in coming to the New Testament. Jesus declares. To Nicodemus. Who came to him at night. And so said to him. We know you're a teacher that's come from God. No one can do the things you're doing. Unless God is with him. And Jesus said to him. Nicodemus. You've got to be born again. What are you talking about Lord? Born again. I'm an old man. I can't go back to my mother's womb. And be born. No, no Nicodemus. You don't understand. That's a fleshly birth. But what is important is that each man have a spiritual birth. For that which was born of the flesh. Is flesh. But that which is born of the spirit. Is spirit. Don't get shook or surprised. Because I tell you. You've got to be born again. Oh Lord. How can these things then be? The answer to Nicodemus' question. Of how can a man be born again? How can these things be? Jesus said. For as Moses lifted up the serpent. In the wilderness. Even so. Must the son of man be lifted up. That whosoever believes in him. Should not perish. But have eternal life. That's the answer to the question of. How can a man be born again? Even as Jesus said. Born again. Even as the serpent. The brass serpent on the pole. Was the sign of God's judgment. Against sin. So Jesus. Upon the cross. Received God's judgment. For your sin. Our sins were all. Judged at the cross. Jesus bore. The sins of the world. There at the cross. The Bible said. Our sins have gone astray. We've turned every one of us to our own ways. But God laid on him. The iniquities of us all. So there upon the cross. Jesus Christ bore the judgment of God. For all of the sin. Of all mankind. And God is saying. If you'll just look. At my son. Hanging there on the cross. And believe. That I have sent him. To bring you life. You can be forgiven. You can be healed. Of your sins. Just looking. God has made salvation. Within the reach. Of every man. As Paul said. It isn't something way up in heaven. Unattainable by us. Where we have to say. Man who can go up there. To bring it down to us. Nor is it down in the depths. But it is very close. To every one of you. Yes it's as close as your very mouth. For if thou shall confess. With your mouth. That Jesus Christ is the Lord. And believe in your heart. That God has raised him from the dead. You'll be saved. But you have to exercise. Your power of choice. And capacity. By looking to Jesus Christ. And seeing in him. God's provision. For he bore. The judgment that was due to you. For all of your sins and transgressions. There upon his cross. He is dying there. In your place. And as he is dying. He is bearing the guilt. Of all of your sins. That's why he's dying. And if you'll just believe in him. And trust in him. You will be born again. And you can experience a glorious change. In your nature. And say Chuck. I am a chronic complainer. That's just my nature. I know. That I just make people miserable around me. But that's just my nature. I'm just a chronic complainer. I wish I weren't. I wish I could. Look at the bright side of things. But that's just my nature. Yes. That's just your nature. I agree. But if any man is in Christ. That's just his nature. And the old things are passed away. Everything becomes new. That's what the gospel is all about. God can change your nature. From one of chronic complaining. To one of continual thanksgiving. You say Chuck. I would like to quit drinking. I know that it's destroying me. But I have the kind of nature. That doesn't metabolize at all. And I've got this problem. I know. That is. The good news of God today is. That God can change you. From what you are. And make you. What he wants you to be. His child. You see I don't like. My horrible temper. I don't like what I do. I know it's destroying me. I know it's destroying those around me. But that's my nature. Yes. Thank God our natures can be changed. Through the power of Jesus Christ. Just look brother. And you can live. You know that person who recognizes. His need. That person who says man. I know it's terrible. I know it's wrong. I know I'm guilty. But I've tried so hard. You don't know how hard I've tried. And I just can't do it man. It's not in me to do it. That man is close to salvation. And I have great hopes for him. He's very very close. The person that I feel really sorry for. And have very little hope for. Is that moral do-gooder. The man who says well. You know I try to live. By the golden rule. I do the best that I can. And I try not to hurt anybody. And I always try to look at the positive side of everything. Like to have a positive mental attitude. And really. Be very satisfied with my life. There is the person. Who is far far from the kingdom. In fact. They are like a person. They are. In that sort of euphoric state. Of the person. Who is freezing to death. Who decides. Well I'll just take a nap. For a few moments. And then go on. And they don't realize. The death. That's going to overtake them. There's a euphoria. They don't realize. How dangerous their condition. Really is. For this is the condemnation. That God sent light into the world. But men won't come to the light. It's that man who realizes. He's a sinner. And realizes he needs help. Who is willing to turn to Jesus Christ. Anything. Any hope. Life and the power of God. Infused into him. And he is changed. And he knows. That glorious power of God. Now you may have your reasons. For not looking to Jesus Christ. But let me assure you. They're all stupid. Because if you don't look. You're going to die. There's no two ways about it. But if you will look. God's promise. Of eternal life. Is yours. You can be free. From the guilt of your past sins. You can walk out of here today. Cleansed. Innocent. Pure before God. If you'll just simply. Look to Jesus Christ. For as Moses. Lifted up the serpent. In the wilderness. So was the son of God. Lifted up upon a cross. Look. Would be saved. And not die. Can any of you deny. That you have not been bitten. By that deadly serpent of sin. Can any of you deny. The fact of a sin in your life. You say a sin Chuck. Wait a minute. Man. Loads. The wages of sin is death. Sin is a deadly malady. What it's doing to the world. Look at the crazy. Confused. Chaos of the world today. Why sin. It's destroying humanity. It's destroying you. There's only one provision. That God has made. And that is through Jesus Christ. And his taking the judgment of God. For man's sin. Upon himself. There on the cross. Dying in your place. Just look. To Jesus Christ. In faith. In trust. And you'll live. Forever with him.

Shall we pray. Thank you Lord for making salvation. Within the reach of each one of us. Making it so simple. That we just need to reach out. And take. The gift. That you are holding out to us today. God help us. Help the chaotic condition. Of this world today. In Jesus name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_arVC54pRpI)