# 192 This Life, Acts 5:12-20 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** _RWzg42BmxQ
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RWzg42BmxQ

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to one incident of power or incidents. In the 5th chapter, verse 12, as the apostles and the multitudes of people had found a gathering place there in Solomon's porch of the temple. And we read in verse 12, And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people and they all were with one accord in Solomon's porch. And of the rest dared no man to join himself to them, but the people magnified them. And the believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes of men and women, insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passed, and that the passing by might overshadow some of them. And there came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks and them that were vexed with unclean spirits, and they were healed every one. Then the high priest rose up and all they that were with him, which is the sect of the Sadducees, and they were filled with indignation or jealousy. And they laid their hands on the apostles, And they laid their hands on the apostles, And they laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison. But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors and brought them forth and said, Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life. Now they were just in the temple, they were arrested for witnessing about Jesus Christ, and they were thrown in prison. But while they were in prison, that night an angel of the Lord came and released them out of the prison miraculously. And he said unto them, Now what would you think the angel would say releasing them from prison? I would think he'd say, Now get out of town just as quick as you can, you know. Don't come back. Because, you know, they've got a warrant out now on you, and so just keep going. But instead the angel told them to go right back to the place where they were arrested. Go right back to the temple, and do the very thing for which they were arrested. Speak to the people the words of this life. And so rather than fleeing, they were told, Go right on back and speak to the people the words of this life. Christianity is a way of life. It is much more than just a creed to be recited. There are many people, thousands of people, who every week recite the Apostles' Creed, but yet do not know that life that God would have them to know in Jesus Christ. Christianity is far more than a correct view of God. Unless my beliefs are translated into my life itself, my beliefs are not valid. It is only as they bring those changes within my life that there is any real validity to my faith. James said, You show me your works, and I will show you your faith. For faith without works is dead, or faith that doesn't work is useless. A belief that isn't translated into a changed life has no value. Now if before believing in Jesus Christ you were doing drugs, fornicating, and listening to the Rolling Stones, and now since believing in Jesus Christ you're still doing pot, fornicating, and listening to Maranatha albums, your believing in Jesus Christ is totally invalidated. It hasn't wrought that life-changing experience that the Gospel is intended to bring to man. And to take the name of Christian and to call yourself a Christian is really wrong because the tag of Christian on you is a wrong tag. You've been misnamed. And unfortunately, there are many people who have been misnamed Christians and thus they bring confusion to the world. They say, Well, he's a Christian and look what he's doing. He lives just like we do. If you are truly a child of God, your life has been changed. If any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. The old things have passed away and everything becomes new. And if you're still living the old life, the old life patterns, then you are not a Christian. And the tag Christian on you only is a confusing issue. It's like grape nuts. I'll never forget the first time I had grape nuts. I like grapes and I like nuts. But when I ate grape nuts I found out it was neither grapes nor nuts. The thing was misnamed and I was confused. And so you take the name of Christian and people look and they see that your life is no different from a rank pagan. And they're confused. But it's only that you've been misnamed. You are not truly a child of God. You cannot truly be a child of God and still be living after the flesh. For the Bible tells us that if we live after the flesh we cannot please God. Now as a Christian I still have strong desires in my flesh. I haven't become some kind of an unfeeling robot. My flesh still has strong desires. However, my desire to please God is greater than my desires of the flesh now. It doesn't mean that the desires of the flesh are all gone. That I don't have any more fleshly feelings welling up within me. But what it does mean that my desire for the Lord and to please Him is so great that I deny myself that I might take up the cross and follow Him because that has become the supreme desire of my life to please the Lord. And I know that if I live after the flesh I cannot please Him. And so the fleshly desires have been subordinated to the greater spiritual desires my desire to live in a way that will please my Father. Christianity is a life after the Spirit. For I have come to recognize that the life of the Spirit is superior to the life of the flesh. I was born ages ago and the moment I was born I became a very dependent little physical creature. Gradually my mind began to store up the stimuli that was being brought to it by my sensory perception and I became more than just a eating breathing little physical monster I became now a thinking eating breathing the capacity to begin to relate to my environment and ultimately to relate my ideas my feelings and to develop the personality and to become the me. Now I was living on a body conscious level first living on the body level for the first few months totally dependent upon my parents and all living only on the body level then I became sort of a animal kind of a creature living on a body conscious level as my brain began to store and to catalog and classify the various stimulations. But then there came a day when I went one step beyond living on just a physical mental plane and I experienced a second birth this time the birth of my spirit and I became a spiritual person now living on a plane that is deeper than just the conscious plane living now in the plane of the spirit. And the plane of the spirit is superior to the plane of the conscious or the flesh. Now we recognize the conscious plane is superior to the physical plane. We look at a person who has lost their thinking capacities and whose life is much like that they say well he's living a vegetable kind of a life vegetable existence. We're talking about the fact that he has a body but no consciousness. He's in a coma. He can't he doesn't think. There's no real activity brain wise vegetable or vegetating. And we recognize that if a person has conscious abilities that that's far superior to just that physical state only. But even as the conscious level is far above just a physical level so when you enter into the spirit spiritual dimension it is far above just the conscious dimension or plane of living. And that is the life that they were to go in the temple and tell the people about life in the plane or the dimension of the spirit. This life in the dimension of the spirit is a life of true love. Now again talk about mislabeling. There are a lot of things that are labeled love that are not true love. A lot of times our expressions of great overwhelming love are not really expressions of love our love for that other person though they may be expressed to the other person but they are expressions of my love for myself and my desires and my interests are purely selfish. You can't leave me. I need you. I can't live without you. I don't know what I would do without you. That doesn't really express tremendous love for the other person. It expresses an insecurity about myself and an interest and a love for myself. If I have true love true love is giving. And in true love my chief interest is not myself it is you it is your needs that which you need to make you happy and fulfilled and all. And I'm not just thinking about my own gratification or fulfillment in true love. I'm concerned in what I might do to enhance your life and make your life better because I love you. And maybe I'm the worst thing in the world for you and the best thing I could do for you because I love you would be to get completely away from you rather than inflict myself upon you. Love on the spiritual plane which is self-sacrificing and a giving love. And this life that they were to share is a life of love. Love for God which is manifested in love for my brothers. For how can I say I love God and hate my brother? I'm only deceiving myself. When they asked Jesus what is the greatest commandment He said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart with all thy soul with all thy mind and strength. And the second is like it. You're to love your neighbor as yourself and in this is all the law and the prophets. You get this and you've got everything. The whole life is bound up in love. A supreme love for God and a love for my brothers. But it is also a life of peace and I think that this is probably the first consciousness of this new life. A person who has entered into this new life in Christ the very first consciousness he has is just a real deep beautiful peace. Way down deep inside. It's a peace that has come because I'm no longer at war with God. A man cannot have real peace with himself as long as he is at war with God. I think today the world is marked by a turmoil. By anxieties. Every once in a while not too often fortunately I get sort of trapped or coerced or whatever into one of my most unfavorite things. Shopping in the malls. But every so often my wife will say but honey it's right on the way home and I don't want to drive all the way back here and it'll just take me a minute but I want to take a look you know. Please honey. And I get that pressure and I say well alright. I just don't like it. There is nothing more uninteresting to me than a rack of dresses. So when my wife goes into those dress shops to just take a look I usually sit out in the mall. So ever you see me sitting there in one of those benches you know my wife's inside looking or trying on a dress or something. But I like looking at people. And you know shopping surely can't be very enjoyable from the way people look in the shopping malls. There seems to be a high vibe in those places. Tension. You see these poor little kids being dragged along by the arm you know and they're just sort of dragging their feet and just sliding as they're pulling them along and then every once in a while they jerk them and swat them you know and they're nervous, they're upset and there's just so much tension and anxiety involved in this whole issue. And so I see the world so full of tension. Apprehensions. Anxieties. And Jesus is saying to that tense anxious world come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. And that glorious peace that comes into my life when I surrender my life to God and I'm no longer fighting against Him. It's a peace that you can't really understand unless you've experienced it. In a sense Christianity becomes existential in that when we talk of these things the love, the peace, the joy these things that we have in this life in Christ you really can't know them without experiencing them. You've got to taste for yourself. The Psalmist said, oh taste and see the Lord is good. And I can tell you that I have a peace that passes human understanding but by my declaration of that there is the assertion that there's no way you can understand it by my telling you of it you've got to experience it for yourself. I have a joy that's indescribable if it's indescribable there's no way I can describe it to you. You'll have to experience that joy for yourself. This past Monday night we were up in Napa ministering to the Calvary Chapel up there and afterwards we went out to Swenson's I was in the car and not driving so I had to go with them and they had what they called a black bark pie now I haven't seen it in the Swenson's down here and I've never tasted anything quite like it. First of all there's a chocolate cookie crust and then a layer of chocolate ice cream and then sort of a gooey chocolate mixed with toasted almonds and then on top of that a layer of vanilla ice cream and on top of that a crust of chocolate with toasted almonds which is like the chocolate that is around the drumsticks and it was so fascinating to look at I decided to order a piece. They made the mistake of asking me to pray and so I prayed that the Lord would bless our fellowship and give us a good night's sleep but I didn't ask him to bless that thing because I knew that it wasn't good for me but I was going to eat it anyhow. But I mean it was absolutely scrumptious. As I was eating it I began to rave over how delicious it was. It had to be one of the most fascinating taste sensations and as I was just raving to them about how delicious black bark pie is I finally took my spoon and took a bite and offered it to the fellow that was at the table with me and I said, taste it. And once he tasted he found out what I was talking about. Now though I was describing the chewy chocolate and the almonds and the whole flavors mixed together he never really could appreciate it until he got it in his mouth and began to savor for himself and then he understood. Now I can tell you of the peace that I have in Jesus. I can tell you of the love that I've experienced. I can tell you of the joy that I have in my life. I can speak to you of these things but you're never going to really know until you experience for yourself until you taste and see that the Lord is good. The angel said to the apostle, now go into the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life this life that you have in Christ that is a life of joy. Now the world today is seeking after joy and discovering happiness as a poor substitute. And there's a difference between happiness and joy they are not synonymous terms. Happiness is an experience of the conscious level. It is related to the outward circumstances but it is very unstable. Whereas joy is related to the spiritual dimension of life unrelated to the immediate outward circumstances but more related to the relationship with God and thus it is not transient but an abiding experience. So though outwardly things may be going to pieces yet within your heart there is the glorious joy of the Lord just flooding your life. That's why people so often cannot understand the Christian is because in our eyes we have such joy in the Lord. The Lord is so good to us. He has done so much. That our lives just overflow with joy but they looking at us and seeing other outward circumstances can't imagine how that we can have that kind of joy in such a miserable condition and they say hey you're crazy. You don't understand man the trouble you're in. Surely if you understood the situation you know you'd be going to pieces you'd be miserable. The joy of the Lord. What a marvelous thing it is. Abiding. And you know what? Happiness it seems has to be constantly renewed but yet any activity repeated often enough begins to lose its excitement or its thrill and doesn't bring me the same degree of happiness. You learn to hang glide. Oh that's an exciting experience. What a sensation. The quietness. Floating through the air. And so it's great. You run off the bluff at Laguna Niguel and you feel the wind as it takes the sails and you're gliding around the beach and over the crowd and all. Oh it's so much fun. But after a while so many runs off the bluff at Laguna Niguel and that's not much of a challenge anymore. But I hear over in Hawaii at the south shore of Wahoo up above the Marine Stadium there tall cliffs and the updrafts are fantastic. And so you head off for Hawaii and you stand up there at that monument and you look way down over those cliffs and you see Rabbit Island out there and you think ooh you know and then you take that jump and you have the sail out there and you begin to maneuver and you feel the updraft and it lifts you up and then you begin to dive around and way out over the water back around and oh what a thrill, what a joy. But so many times off the top and doesn't have the same sensation you don't get that same rush when you look over those cliffs and so you think Yosemite. Glacier Point. Land in the meadow down below. Get arrested and all but oh what a thrill you know. From Glacier Point jumping ooh you know. You ever stood there at Glacier Point? Oh man I'll tell you it takes your breath away just looking straight down into the valley. But anything that we seem to do to bring us that thrill or excitement has a way of fading after repeated actions and you have to find a higher mountain and a new adventure. You have to experience not with the joy. You know that the joy of the Lord only increases with the years. That I still get such a flush every time I feel God's hand upon my life. I never cease feeling that excitement that thrill, that joy of having God touch me. It only increases with the years. The angel said go into the temple and speak to the people. All the words of this life for it is a life of confidence. Paul said and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. What confidence it gives me in life. No matter what is happening no matter what the circumstances may be I know that it's going to work out great. Because nothing happens but what God does not allow it to happen. And God loves me and his plan for me is only good and the best thing that could happen to me. And I'm so committed to God and to the plan of God in my life that I don't worry about the things that come across my path no matter how bad they may look on the surface. No matter how dark it may seem. I have confidence that when it all works out that when it all comes down it's going to be good. The whole ultimate end of the thing is going to be beneficial for me because I love God. I'm his child and he loves me and he is in control of everything that surrounds my life. Confident living. I can face the most difficult situation with tremendous confidence because God is in control and I know that. Now, because God is in control he is able to take even evil designs against me and turn them around for good. When Joseph's brothers because of their jealousy for him decided to kill him and then opted to sell him to the slave traders going to Egypt they intended that their brother be gotten rid of forever. Little did they realize that years later they would meet their brother again under different circumstances. Now he is second in control of all of Egypt. He's over the whole land right under the Pharaoh who looks to him for guidance and counsel. And he has the upper hand now. And they are worried. They think, oh boy, we've had it now. He's going to surely put us to death for what we did to him. That miserable trick we played on him. And Joseph said, hey fellows, don't be afraid that I'm going to try and get vengeance upon you. I know that you meant it for evil but God intended it for good. Oh, when you know that God is in control even of those adverse circumstances and is able to bring good out of evil. The God that I serve is able to keep my life and I know in whom I have believed. And I'm persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed and I've committed my life and my future and my circumstances unto him and I live a confident life knowing he's able to keep things together to work out his best plan. It's a life that doesn't terminate at the grave. You know, the natural man usually measures his life from the day of his birth to the day of his death. And you can go out to the cemeteries and see how man gauges life, not us. We measure our life from the day we were born again and it's open-ended. It'll never cease. That day Jesus Christ came into my life I received eternal, age-abiding, everlasting life. And the grave, far from terminating, only releases me from the restrictions of this body and allows me to enter into that fullness that shall be mine throughout eternity with him. Go speak to the people, the angel said, all the words of this life. It's a life worth living. It's a life worthwhile. How do we obtain this life? You must be born again. You were born once. At that point you had physical life. As time went on and your brain began to restore and catalog the stimuli you develop conscious life. That's all the further many people go. To enter into the new life it takes a second birth. And even as you were born once physically it is necessary that you be born spiritually. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Don't marvel when a person says you must be born again. They're talking about the second birth which is a spiritual birth. And until you have a spiritual birth your spirit is dead because of the trespasses and sins of your life. But through Jesus Christ your spirit can come alive. And you can enter into that dimension of life the spiritual dimension of life that is so vast so complete so full, so rich that no one who has not yet entered it can even have the least comprehension of what it's all about. You must be born again. Nicodemus said to Jesus well how can I be born again? And Jesus answered God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believes in Him that's how it happens believing in Jesus you will not perish but have everlasting life. Go speak to the people all the words of this life everlasting life life after the spirit life in the spirit life through the spirit the life that God wants you to know because it is a life that is lived in fellowship with God through the spirit.

Shall we pray? Father we thank You for this life that is ours through Jesus Christ and this is the record that You've given to us eternal life and the life is in the Son and He who has the Son has life. Oh thank You Father for all that is ours as we live this life in Jesus. God speak to our hearts today there are those Lord who have been mislabeled they've taken the name but they're still the same help oh God help them to realize that it's a life not a creed and may they enter into that life after the spirit in Jesus in His name we pray Amen.

Jesus said if any man will come after me let him deny himself first requirement deny himself take up his cross follow me there is a life that you can have in Christ far superior to anything you've ever known but it takes a denial of the life of the flesh to live after the spirit I pray that you'll make that denial and learn what it is to walk after the spirit may the Lord be with you bless you if you'd like to make that change today the pastors will be back in the prayer room waiting for you to pray with you after the service this morning but may you experience this week the touch of God upon your life the empowering of His Holy Spirit that you might become what God wants you to be His witness in Jesus name

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RWzg42BmxQ)