# 129 Time To Seek The Lord, Hosea 10:12 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** zbQFYWdg73Y
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zbQFYWdg73Y

This morning we'd like you to turn with us to the 10th chapter and the 12th verse of Hosea, chapter 10, verse 12. The nation of Israel is in severe crisis.

Their continued existence as a nation is being threatened.

The Assyrians are about to overthrow them. In fact, in the first part of chapter 10, God is warning them of this judgment that is coming, namely the Assyrian armies, which will be overthrowing them. And thus God is speaking once again to the people. Now to me it is significant that God is still speaking.

Even though His judgment is about ready to fall, yet God is still speaking. God is still offering a solution for them. Unfortunately, they did not take God's solution. They did not listen to what God had to say and ultimately suffered the disastrous consequences as Assyria did come, as Assyria did destroy them, and as the Assyrians carried away the people captive, and repopulated them in other areas. But in verse 12, God speaks to the people concerning the remedy for their national ills. And here God is exhorting them, sow to yourselves in righteousness. Now our lives are constantly sowing to others. I have an influence. I have an influence for good or bad on everyone that I meet. You cannot meet with another person, but what your life doesn't make a statement one way or another, even without your saying a word. There is that unconscious kind of an influence that we have. And there are some people who leave a polluting influence wherever they go. In fact, there are some people after they leave, I feel like taking a bath. I wish I could cleanse out of my mind all of the filth that they have left. They seem to plant rotten seed, polluted seed, wherever they are. And yet there are others who just by their very presence bring a blessing. They somehow just sort of lift you up. They leave you a better person. There is just that sweet influence. That graciousness and all about them. That wherever they go, they leave just a pleasant kind of an influence behind them. You have greater faith. You have greater confidence. You have greater trust. Because their life is spreading that kind of an influence. But that's not what the Lord is talking to them about. He's not here addressing, though it is important, it is addressed elsewhere. He's not here addressing the influence that you have on others or that which you are sowing in the lives of others. Here He is addressing Himself to that which you are sowing into your own heart. He is saying, sow to yourselves, you see. Not talking about the sowing, what you're doing to others. Talking about what you're doing now to yourselves. Sow to yourselves in righteousness. My life, what I am, is determined by what kind of seed I am sowing into my brain. Our brains are much like a computer in that they can only give out that which has been programmed in. And I am constantly feeding into this computer information that is either planting and programming in righteousness, or it is programming in iniquity. Things to the flesh. Paul the Apostle writing to the Galatian church said, Be not deceived, for God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Talking about what you're putting into your mind. For he said, if we sow to the flesh, then of the flesh we are going to reap corruption. But if we will sow to the flesh, then of the spirit, then of the spirit we will reap life everlasting. Here God is telling us to sow to yourself in righteousness. You see, if I am feeding my brain constantly on Playboy or X-rated movies, then I am going to reap an inordinate sexual urge. If I am planting into my mind the soap operas all day long, then I am going to be reaping suspicion. And when my husband calls and says, I'm going to be a little late this evening, you're going to get all upset and suspicious, wondering, oh, but who is he seeing now and what's happening? And you're just, you see, sowing into your mind, you're programming that something's wrong. He's not faithful or this or that. It's something that whatever you sow, you're going to also reap. But if I am feeding the word of God into my mind, if I am sowing to the spirit, then I'm going to be sowing to righteousness and I will be reaping in mercy. Sow the right things into your mind so that the right things will come out. It is really very important, the kind of music that you listen to, the kind of music that fills your home. If when the kids are eating breakfast on their way to school soon and you've got the top 40 blaring out in the house and you're planting this garbage into their minds, they're going to be getting so much garbage when they get out the door, they'll never be able to withstand it. Better that you have some soft Christian music in the background. And even unconsciously, it will be sowing to their spirit and it will better fortify them for that world that they will soon be facing and all of its temptations and allurement. What I read is so important. It affects me so deeply. If I sow in righteousness, sowing to myself in righteousness, then I will be reaping in mercy. Rather than being vengeful, critical and harsh, I'll be kind and I'll be forgiving. You know, strife should always cease at your doorstep. But if I'm sowing to the flesh, you see, the part of my nature, fleshly part of my nature, doesn't want to let a thing rest. If someone has done me a wrong, I want to get even with them and I'll get even if it's the last thing I do. That's the way my flesh talks. And that's what my flesh says to me. Don't let them get by with that. Teach them a lesson. Get even with them. And so because of the flesh ruling, rather than being merciful and gracious and letting the strife stop there, by my attempting to get even, all I'm doing is prolonging and continuing the strife. But God would have the strife too. But God would have the strife too. But God would have the strife too. So to yourself in righteousness, and then you can reap in mercy. And then the Lord said, Break up your fallow ground. Fallow ground is ground that has become hard because of the lack of cultivation. The soil gets compacted very tight. And God is saying, Look, break up that fallow, that hard ground. The plow hasn't been through it for a long time. And through the process of the rains and all, there's been the compaction and the hardening until it becomes hard like a brick. And actually, all that can grow on it are the thorns and the briars and the nettles and the thistles, the weeds. It can't take good seed. God is saying, Hey, break up the fallow ground. You see, some of you, your hearts have become very hardened to God. So hard that God's word has no place to take root within your life. You may hear the word of God, but in the next rain, the next storm, it's washed right out. Your heart is so hardened that it's not receptive to the things of God. Now the result of your heart becoming hardened to God is that your heart also becomes hardened to those around you. You become hardened to the needs of your wife or the needs of your children. You get so into yourself, into your own pursuits, that you do not see the distress signals that they are putting up. You're so hardened that you don't hear their cries of despair. And one day, you're absolutely devastated. When you receive divorce papers. Or your child has run away. And you say, how can that be? How can that happen? Well, you haven't seen all of the signs that were there. Your heart has been so hardened and callous. They've been trying to cry out. But you weren't listening. They were putting up all kinds of little distress signals. But you were too hardened to observe. Until it's too late. Until you have so shut them out. Until you have so damaged them. You've hurt them so deeply. That you find that they in turn have sort of just hardened themselves to you. How do you break up the fallow ground? Well, it begins with recognition. An awakening. Oh God, I have been hard. I have hardened myself to you. I haven't really felt it. I haven't really felt your presence, God. I haven't really experienced that glorious love. And God, I have been hardening my heart to the things of the Spirit. And then repentance. Now repentance is a true change. Now there's a lot of people who make a sham change. We have so many that come to us for counseling. And the guy will come in and say, man, I blew it. I blew it. I got divorce papers. Look, man, I got the divorce papers right here. I blew it, man. I blew it. I just was ignoring my wife. And I was doing this and that. Man, I want my family back. Oh God, I want my family back. Anything, you know, get my family back. Would you call her? Would you talk to her? And he starts sending flowers. And he starts calling five times a day. And starts doing all these things that he should have been doing. And so many times the wife will take them back. Only to have in a couple of weeks him coming in and ignoring her again. And just the same old thing. And it wasn't a true change. It was just a change of convenience in order to try and get things going again. But it wasn't a true change. It wasn't true repentance. Break up the fallow ground. Let there be a true repentance. A true opening of my heart to God to receive that seed that God would plant into my life. For it is only as that seed is planted in my life that the real changes can take place as that begins to bear fruit. The fruit unto righteousness. And I might begin to reap in mercy. Break up that fallow ground. That hardened heart. Start to pay attention to God's word and put it into practice in your life. Obey it. James speaks about those who are deceiving themselves. Who are hearing the word of God but not doing it. It isn't enough that you just hear God's word. It's important that you put it into practice. Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves. And then the Lord declares for it is not time to seek the Lord. This was surely true for the nation of Israel. You see they had been seeking their own pleasures. They had been seeking their own fleshly desires. And then when trouble began to arise they were seeking Egypt for help. And seeking unto the gods that they had established. But there was no help from Egypt. No help from their idols. It's time to seek the Lord. The Lord said to them. Because they did not seek the Lord. Because they did seek the help of Egypt. Egypt failed them. And the Assyrians destroyed them. Their nation was destroyed. As I look around today and I see the signs of moral decay in our society I realize that the time has come when we must seek the Lord. Our society has gone from a permissive society. Well actually we started out as a very restrictive society. But we went from the restrictive society under pressure to a permissive society. But now we have taken a further step and we are becoming an indulgent society. Not just permitting the evil but encouragement to indulge in the evil. And as the result we see that moral decay through the whole fiber of our society and culture. Now I occasionally read in the liberal press interesting little articles that talk about how that the rising divorce rate is threatening the family unit and how that there is so much crime that it is not safe for a lady to walk down the street at night. And children are disobedient to parents. And it goes on and lists a lot of social evils. And you think that it's someone making a commentary on today's situations. And then at the bottom you'll read it was Kikero and you know he was writing about the Roman society in 400 or something. Or it was one of the Greek philosophers decrying the things that were happening in Greece. Or it was some French philosopher talking about the things that were happening in France back in the 1700s. And the intimation of these little articles is hey it's bad yeah but it's always been bad. You know there's always been this moral decline. There's always been this horrible crime problem. There's always been high divorce. There's always been this pollution. But wait a minute. Wait a minute. Study carefully the dates that these observations were made in that society and you'll find that they were making those observations in Rome just before Rome fell. They were making those observations in France just before the French Revolution. They were making those observations in Greece just before the fall of Greece. And so we read here God's indictment. Yes they were having all kinds of immorality and you know broken homes and the whole thing. God was laying it out. But it was just before their fall. So there is no comfort that these things have happened in history. It's only a greater warning because it tells us that we are in the final stages before our fall. Because these are the things that always precipitated the fall of a civilization or of an empire. The purpose of government is the preservation of good. That is what is behind and should be behind all government. That is the idea of government. We must preserve the good in order that our society may continue. But when the government is no longer seeking to preserve the good but is beginning to restrain the good while liberating the evil that government has failed and will soon be overthrown by the evil forces that it is liberating. It would appear to me that from much of the legislature that is coming out and the rulings of the courts that number one we are beginning to restrain the good. A recent law was passed in the state of Washington. That the realtors cannot use any type of Christian symbols in their advertising. On their cards or in their ads. No fish, no doves, no crosses. Nothing that would indicate the fact that the realtor is a Christian. Because that would be discriminating against the crooked realtors. But what is this doing but restraining the good? Laws designed to restrain the good. But in the same token and at the same time laws are being enacted and decisions are being made from the courts that are liberating the evil. Opening the doors to open pornography. More and more pornography. I often wonder, God what kind of a world are my grandchildren growing up in? When I was a young boy pornography was under the table kind of stuff. You didn't see it. Generally. Oh, every once in a while some kid would smuggle a Sunshine and Health magazine. But you send your child to the store today. And quite often adjacent to the candy counter is the magazine rack filled with pornographic magazines. You don't even have to open the covers. You see it. And they go to buy a quart of milk. And when they go to the checkout stand here's all of this stuff facing them. And you wonder, God what's going to come of children that are being glutted with sex? What kind of a society is it that would use young little teenage girls as sex symbols to sell jeans? What kind of a society is it that allows child pornography, the exploitation of sex among children? You say, oh, those people ought to be prosecuted. What about the people who are supporting them by buying that kind of junk? You see, they wouldn't be making it if people weren't buying it. But what kind of a society is it that supports it by buying it? It's a society that has had the evil living liberated by its government that is restraining the good. Now, whenever that kind of a turn takes place then government has totally failed its purpose, the preservation of the good. And as I said, having failed its purpose it will soon be overthrown by the evil that it has released. It cannot stand. It is self-destructive. It's time to seek the Lord. It's time to seek the Lord like we've never sought the Lord before. It's time to seek the Lord with all of our hearts. God said to Jeremiah at this same stage of history that I will be found of you in the day that you seek me with your whole heart. It's time for those people who are called by God's name to humble themselves and pray and to seek His face. It's time to seek the Lord. And how long are we to seek the Lord? The Lord said it's time to seek the Lord till He comes. Surely the coming of the Lord is very close. But if we're going to even survive at the end of this age it's time to seek the Lord till He comes. Jesus said, concerning the last closeout of the age of man prior to His return, He said, evil days shall wax worse and worse. And because the iniquity of the earth will abound, the love of many will wax cold. It's time to seek the Lord, that our love not wax cold, that we not be overthrown in this upheaval of evil, but that we might stand against the tide. Oh, sow to yourself in righteousness. It's so important that you do because the moment you go outside of your home you're going to be assaulted with the media that is seeking to sow to your flesh. Sow to yourself in righteousness in order that you might reap in mercy and begin to seek God with all of your heart. Break up that fallow ground until the Lord comes and rains His righteousness upon us that it might bring forth fruit that is pleasing to God.

Shall we pray? God, we thank You that greater is He that is in us than He that is in the world. And though we see the crumbling world around us, our hearts are confident in You and in Your kingdom that is coming and in that righteousness which will yet cover the earth as the waters do cover the seas. Oh, God, help us that we might give heed to Thy word today. That we might break up that fallow ground of our hearts. God, that we might be so open and receptive to Thy word that it might take root and grow and bring forth fruit in Jesus' name. With some of you whose hearts are so hardened to the word of God, you'll shrug your shoulders, go your way, and fall right back into the same patterns. No impact. Nothing. Spirit doesn't penetrate anymore. Everything is surface. It doesn't take root. It can't get underneath. And maybe God is speaking to some of you in a more direct and powerful way and you really would like to just sort of make some changes. You'd like to sort of break up that fallow ground. You'd like to become more sensitive to God and being more sensitive to Him, more sensitive to the needs of those around you. And as you are honest in the evaluating of your life, you realize that you've become hardened. I don't care what reasons for it. Forget that. The tragedy is that you're hardened. Oh, may God just break up the fallow ground today. May you give Him the chance to do it. And a great place for God to put His plow in is back there in the prayer room. You just get down before God and say, God, go ahead and just plow up the old fallow ground and then plant Your seed, Your word in my heart that I might reap in mercy. God bless you and God put His hand upon your life and keep you in His love. May you be strengthened by the work of God's Spirit within your life. And may God build that hedge around you to help keep you and your family from the degrading influence of this world and this society in which we live. And may we begin to walk after the Spirit and may we sow to the Spirit until we reap of the Spirit life everlasting. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zbQFYWdg73Y)