# 104 Trusting A Lie, Jeremiah 7:1-4 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** muNMBZl0PLk
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=muNMBZl0PLk

This morning we'd like to draw your attention to Jeremiah chapter 7 and we'll start with verse 1 Our text is found in verse 4 Jeremiah 7 The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying Stand in the gate of the Lord's house and proclaim there this word And say, hear the word of the Lord all ye of Judah that enter in at these gates to worship the Lord Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Amend your ways and your doings and I will cause you to dwell in this place Trust ye not in lying words saying The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord Oh, the temple of the Lord Oh, the temple of the Lord Are these When Josiah, the king of Judah, was 8 years old He began to reign as king When he was 13 years old God called Jeremiah to be a prophet Who was just a few years older than the 13 year old king at that time God was using young people in that day in a very remarkable way One as a king and the other as The prophet over the nations Sent to speak to the king Josiah was a good king Being just a child He was heavily influenced by Hilkiah, the high priest And by a prophetess whose name was Huldah And he instituted many important reforms In the land of Judah He destroyed the altars of Judah He destroyed the altars of Judah He destroyed the altars of the false gods That the people had begun to worship He cut down the groves He destroyed the images that were there in the high places And initiated many wonderful spiritual reforms Among the things that he did In his 18th year as king Was to restore the temple Which had really fallen into great disrepair Under the reign of Manasseh They had built pagan altars right in the temple of God And they were worshipping at these pagan altars Within the temple of God And the worship of Jehovah had been forsaken They no longer offered the sacrifices They no longer read the scriptures They no longer worshipped Jehovah in his temple But were actually worshipping worshiping Baal and the other gods, the Molech, even within the precincts of the temple. So Josiah ordered that these false altars be removed from the courts of the temple. He ordered that a great sum of money be given to restore the temple in order that they might begin to worship Jehovah once more in his temple there in Jerusalem. And so there was delivered unto the workmen the money and they began their work skillfully in the restoration of the temple in order that they might once again worship the Lord in his holy temple. As they were refurnishing the temple and remodeling and renewing, they came across a copy of the scriptures which had been lost for years.

And Hilkiah the priest sent this scripture scroll of the law unto Josiah and they read it to Josiah. And as they read to Josiah the law of God, he came into the awareness and the consciousness of how horrible these people had been. How horrible it was that they had turned from the living God. How horrible it was that they had been worshiping these idols and been sacrificing unto these false gods. And he realized that it was only God's mercy that they hadn't already been wiped out completely. And he cried out before the Lord for the people and for the nation because of the terrible blasphemy of their worship of these false gods. Also there in the law of God he had read to him how that they were to observe the Passover on the seventh day of the first month. And so he ordered that a great Passover be held there in Jerusalem. And he invited the people, the Jews from all over the world to come and celebrate again the Passover in Jerusalem so that it was a celebration of the Passover that was unparalleled in their history.

From the time of Samuel there had not been held such a marvelous Passover feast. So many people gathering, gathering together and everyone was excited. It was sort of a returning and a renewing of the roots of their whole system. Now it was at the time of the celebration of this Passover in the restored temple that the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah saying, go down to the gate of the temple and as the people are coming in, cry out unto the people and say unto them, amend your ways, trust not in lying words saying the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord are these. Turn to me with your whole heart. Then will you dwell, God said in this land. Now, as the people were coming in, they were probably looking and saying, oh, the temple of Jehovah, isn't it beautiful? My, the temple of Jehovah. And, and as they were coming in saying these words, this prophet standing there saying, hey, don't trust in lying words saying the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah. God says, amend your ways if you want to dwell safely in this land. Why would God rebuke the people at the time of spiritual renewal when they've never had a Passover like this in all of their history? It seems that that would be a time that God would be blessing them and having the prophet, say, blessed are you people of the Lord who come to worship God in his temple. But instead, the prophet's out there rebuking them, saying, don't trust in lying words saying the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. The reason for the rebuke was because the reform was only on the surface. They were coming to the temple because it was the popular thing to do, the king had ordered a big feast. But in their hearts, they had not truly turned towards God. They still had their idols in their home. They had burned their incense to bell in their own houses. And now they're coming and saying, oh, the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah. Coming to the temple made them feel sort of good. And they felt that by so doing, they'd pay good. They'd give God his dues. It was a good place to be seen. Their motivation in the restoring of the temple was wrong. They thought that because the temple was now destroyed, that God will surely defend them from their enemies and they will be able to dwell now safely in the land. They were looking at the temple as, as one would look at a magical charm almost. just the building itself, the fact that we've restored it and put so much money into the building, surely God will take knowledge of us and God will defend us and God will keep us because after all, this is the temple of Jehovah and God will watch over us and we will dwell safely now.

There are many people today who attend church out of wrong motivation.

Some attend church because they feel it's a duty or an obligation. After all, you know, God's done so much for me. An hour on Sunday morning, the least I can do, you know. And so it's sort of a duty and an obligation, your being here.

You don't want people to think you're a total heathen.

And so if you attend church and you say, oh, well, last Sunday morning, the sermon, you know, and they go, oh, yes, you know, he's not a complete pagan. He goes to church.

But the people were living under a false illusion.

And the prophet was saying, don't trust in these lying words, saying, oh, the temple of the Lord. Now that we have the temple of the Lord, God's going to protect us. Now that we have the temple of Jehovah, the Lord's going to keep us and we're going to dwell safely in this land. They thought their national safety was secured by the building.

It was a good luck charm.

And they were trusting more in the building than they were trusting in God. Now, it's always a sign of spiritual degeneracy. When people begin to trust in symbols instead of God. A person says, oh, wait, I can't go out until I put my cross on. I always wear my cross whenever I go out, you know. And it's sort of like a rabbit's foot, you know. I wear it for good luck or something. And I sort of trust, oh, I forgot my cross. Oh, help. Oh, something horrible doesn't happen to me. I don't have my cross, you know. And they look upon it like, some kind of a charm, a good luck charm or something. And they're trusting in a symbol rather than trusting in the Lord. There are millions of people today who are trusting in the church rather than trusting in Jesus Christ. They're trusting in the fact that they go to church. My name is on the membership roll down there. And they're trusting in the church to save them rather than having an active faith and trust in Jesus Christ. There are many people today who are trusting in a ritual. They are trusting in a symbol. They're trusting in the baptism when they were infants for their salvation. And they do not have a vital living relationship with Jesus Christ today. But they're trusting in the fact that when they were a child, someone sprinkled water on them and said words over them. And so, of course, I'm saved. I was baptized. And they're trusting in a symbolic ritual rather than in an actual living relationship with God.

Now these people coming into the temple and looking with awe and saying, Oh, the temple of Jehovah had not really ceased from their evil ways. The prophet said to them, Behold, you are trusting in lying words that cannot be true. They cannot save you. For you are stealing, you're murdering, you're committing adultery, you're swearing falsely, you're lying, you're cheating, and you're burning incense to bell and you're walking after other gods whom ye know not. And just because you're coming now into the temple of Jehovah, you think everything is all right. You think God is going to smile favorably upon you because after all, you've come to celebrate the Passover. You've brought your lamb in the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah. But he said, Don't trust in lying words saying the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah are these. God says, Clean up your act for as long as you are guilty of doing these abominable things, your coming into the house of God does not at all atone or cover for the evil that you are doing. And God's cry unto the people was to cease from your wicked ways.

For God said, because of these evil things, you're going to be destroyed out of the land. Just because you have a temple isn't going to save you. Just because you've remodeled my house, I'm not going to save you from your enemies. Because of the evil things that you are doing, you're going to be destroyed. Now to think that the fact that you have the temple, you're going to be safe, you won't be destroyed, you'll be able to, that's a lying concept. Don't believe, don't trust in that lying concept. The fact that you have a temple isn't going to save you. You must repent. You must forsake your evil ways. For coming to temple or church cannot atone for the evil that you do. And your continual coming into the house of God while you persist in the evil practices is the, is the highest form of blasphemy. The prophet said unto him, behold, you're trusting in lying words that cannot save. You know, I have been deceived and I've been fooled about a lot of things.

Men in whom I have placed my utmost confidence and trust have deceived me.

And I've been fooled on many occasions. I've held the bag waiting for the snipe to run in. As the guys were, around beating the bushes.

I've been left holding the broom with a glass of water tight against the ceiling.

And that's all right.

I can survive the laughter of the gang when I come back. And I can survive the stabs in the back from men that I thought were my closest friends.

I can live through those things. I can survive those things. I can shake them off and go on because you don't live in the past. And so though, I have been fooled and deceived and no doubt as life goes on, I will be fooled even more in the future. I'm not the wisest person in the world.

I get caught in things every once in a while. There's one thing I don't want to be fooled about. There's one thing in which I don't want to be deceived and that's my eternal destiny. When it comes to my eternal life, I don't want anybody fooling around or leading me into trusting into a false premise for my salvation. I don't want to find out when I die that I've been deceived, I've been fooled. When it comes to something that vital and that important, I don't want to trust in lying words. I want the truth. I want the truth of God. I want the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Because my eternal destiny is now hanging on this. And that is why the Lord sent the prophet down to the gate of the temple to cry to the people who were coming in. Because as they were coming in, they were coming in under a false pretense. They were coming in under a deception, under a lie. They were thinking, oh, we've built the temple of God. Surely God will take care of us now. We're coming into the temple. That's all that God requires. Here I am, God. I'm doing my duty. And so God is going to take care of me. I'm going to dwell safely in the land. And I can still go out and do my own thing. I can still go out and commit adultery. I can still go out and lie and cheat and steal. I can still go out and keep into my own ways as long as I go to temple. It's all taken care of. Because here I am. It's the temple of Jehovah. And I'm in. The temple of Jehovah. And so that atones or takes care of all of my evil practices and my burning of my incense to Baal or my worshiping of these false gods. And the prophet's saying, hey, don't trust in lying words. That's a lie. You've got your trust in the wrong things. God says, change your ways. Amend your ways. And then you will dwell safely in the land. Then you will be saved. But not just by observance within a house of worship.

Trust not in lying words. God said, behold, you're trusting in lying words that cannot save.

I'm afraid that there are many people who are falsely trusting in the grace of God.

And they're using that as a cloak to cover over a vicious life. Oh, well, God's grace. This is sufficient, brother. Oh, God's grace will cover it, brother. And they think because of the grace of God, they can go out and commit fornication. They can go out and commit adultery. They can go out and live a wicked life. And God's grace will cover and take care of it. You're trusting in lying words.

God said, forsake your evil ways and I will be a God unto you. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world, for he who has the love of the world in his heart has not the love of the Father. Oh, I can still worship my little gods out here, but as long as I go to church and the grace of God's going to cover and take care of it, and I just say, oh, God, cover me with your grace and I can go out and do my own thing. Wrong. Trust not in lying words. You are saved through faith, yes, but it is that kind of faith that produces a new life. It is that kind of faith that gives you victory, victory over the flesh and over the areas of the flesh in your life. It is that kind of faith that brings you into a walk of holiness and purity before the Lord. For if you will read in Galatians chapter 5, as Paul gives to us, that list of the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, adultery, fornication, lasciviousness, evil surmisings, and he goes down that list of the works of the flesh, he concludes by saying, and we know that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of heaven.

Don't trust in lying words, thinking everything is all right with God because I went to church today, because I heard a message today, and things are all right with God. Things are not all right with God if your life isn't in harmony with the holiness of God.

You're trusting in lying words. But God is not pleased with your life through the week. He said, amend your ways, change your practices, and then I will be a God, and then you will dwell safely there.

You say, well, Chuck, you're sort of hitting rather straight this morning, aren't you? You bet your life I am, and I intend to because I don't want to be guilty of holding out a false hope to people. I don't want someone, when they stand before the judgment bar of God and hear the guilty sentence, turn to me and say, Chuck, you said I was all right.

I was assured that as long as I came to church, I was in good shape. No way, man.

Your being here this morning doesn't cut any ice with God.

It's your life during the week that really counts before the Lord. And you can't burn incense into your altars at home, and you can't live after the world all week long, and then come to church on Sunday morning and think, well, you know, that's all right. The temple, the house of God, the house of God. We've been to the house of God today. No way.

God is still calling for you to amend your ways and to live after righteousness and to follow after him with your whole heart. Not a half-hearted commitment, not half-hearted devotion, not a Sunday morning commitment to God, but a daily commitment of myself and my life to him is what God is requiring and calling for today. Don't trust in lying words, saying the house of God, the house of God is this place. For lying words will not save. Only an active, living faith in Jesus Christ that produces the change in your life. So we pray.

Father, we read this. Realize how hard it must have been for Jeremiah to stand there in the gates of thy house as the people were coming to worship and to cry out his words of warning.

But how necessary, O God, that they hear the truth and the whole truth and nothing but the truth. O God, make us faithful witnesses of thy truth. Help us, O God, that we would never be guilty of laying out false hopes, false premises, for man to stand upon. But, O God, may we always bear thy truth,

even if it cuts, in Jesus' name.

You remember when God called Jeremiah to minister back in chapter 1, he said, I've called you to root out, to pull down, to destroy. This is a part of the first part of Jeremiah's ministry. He was there ripping up the systems,

tearing down the false hopes, the false concepts, rooting out the evil in order that, ultimately, he might begin the secondary part of his ministry to plant and to build. So during the first part of Jeremiah, we're going to get into the rooting out, tearing down, destroying aspects. But it's important. It's important that we not be standing on any false premise or false hope, but that we stand in the truth of God. Amen.

This morning, like, hey, I need to clean up my act.

I've been trusting in lying words. I've been deceived. God's Spirit really nailing you. I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room and let the Spirit of God just really take over your life and begin to guide you and lead you away from your own flesh and the following after your own desires. The worshiping of the other gods and a real commitment, total commitment to Jesus Christ. Prayer room's on the far right over here in the corner. Pastors and counselors, we'll be back in the back room to pray with you. God bless you. God keep you. Fill you with his love. Anoint you with his Holy Spirit. Give you that power that we need to live for Jesus Christ in his name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=muNMBZl0PLk)