# 205 Trying to Change God, Romans 1:21-25 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** 4ai93VKQD4c
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ai93VKQD4c

This morning, we'd like to draw your attention to the first chapter, beginning with verse 21, Romans 1, 21. We'd like to talk to you about the subject of changing God, or trying to change God. Because that when they knew God, they glorified Him not as God, neither were thankful, they became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. And professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And they changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image, made like to corruptible man and to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forevermore. Amen.

It seems unreasonable that finite little man would seek to change an infinite God.

And yet how often that is the case. I am not certain that we have been totally... totally guiltless in this matter. I have on occasions attempted to change God's opinion in prayer. God has purposed to do a particular thing, but oh, how I would like to change God from His purposes if I could. It is interesting to me that those who sought to change God were those who knew God. For when they knew God, He declares. How did they know God? Man knows that God exists by our very existence. My body is a testimony of the existence of God. Those marvelous intricacies of the design of the human body bear witness of a designer. I not only have the capacity to see, to hear, to smell, to touch, to taste, but I also have the capacity to record and catalog those smells. That which I see, that which I hear, that which I've touched, and that which I've tasted. And of course that capacity to record and catalog is important. Think of how totally confusing life would be if we did not record the smells and catalog them. When I come home and I open the door and I start sniffing, I say, all right, she made some Toll House cookies. How do I know that? Well, as soon as that particular vibration hit my brain, my brain filed through the catalog, went through the catalog file very quickly and brought up Toll House cookies. That's exactly how they smell. All right. And I start looking for Toll House cookies. Now had my brain not recorded and cataloged, that smell, when I came in and sniffed, I wouldn't know if there was a dead cat that I should try to find or whatever. But because I have recorded and cataloged the various smells, I know the difference between a dead cat odor and chocolate chip cookies. Now this is true also of people, our sight, so that I know my wife every time I see her. Because my brain has recorded and cataloged her face, the impression of her face. And thus we recognize one another. How totally confusing life could become if we did not have the capacities of recording and cataloging those sensory stimuli that we have received. But not only do I have this capacity of recording and cataloging the stimuli, but I also have the capacity of abstract thinking. I can understand that infinity exists, though I don't understand infinity. I can understand that God exists, though I don't understand God. I can understand and conceive that the moon is 234,000 miles away. I can understand that the sun is 93 million miles away. I can understand that Neptune is 14 billion 200 million miles away. And I can even in a sense conceive that Andromeda is 1,500,000 light years away, though this becomes a little more difficult of conception. But then I can put it in comparative terms by which I can sort of conceive of distances in light years. My dog is a very brilliant dog, for a dog. He understands a lot of things. He has developed certain reactions. In the evening when he hears the can opener going in the kitchen, he perks up, his ears will pick up, and he'll come and stand at the kitchen window and look in and smile at us. Now we have a Samoyed and they do smile. And his tail is wagging and his salivating glands start working. And he knows, as soon as I leave the kitchen sink, he runs to the back door. And when I walk outside, he's all excited because he knows that he's going to be fed. He's recorded and cataloged the sound of the can opener and he relates it to his food. He is able to lie down on command, sit on command, roll over on command, speak on command. But if I tried to tell him, now I have to go out to the church, which is about five miles from here, and I'll be gone for a couple of hours, but don't worry, I'll be back. He has no capacity of abstract thinking. He has no concept of distance. If at night I go out with him and I point his head up towards the moon and I say, you see that bright object up there? That's 234,000 miles away. Though he's a smart dog, he just can't conceive of that. So my capacity of abstract thinking means that God created me in a class above the animals, in a class just a little lower than him. And so my very existence, my capacities to think, to understand, to relate, conceptual thinking, abstract thinking, they all bear witness of an infinite God who created me with infinite wisdom. And so I am aware of God's existence just by my own mere existence. I know that with all of the design, there must be a designer. With all of the effect, there's got to be a cause. The world around me testifies to God's existence. As the psalmist told us, the heavens declare the glory of God, the earth shows his handiwork. Day unto day, they utter their speech. Night unto night, their voice goeth forth. There's not a speech nor a language where their voice is not heard. The universal voice of God to man of all cultures, of all ethnic groups, speaking to man of his existence through nature. Now there are some people who object to the belief in God because they say, I cannot see him. And there are those who say, seeing is believing. Thomas was one of those individuals. I will not believe until I can see the prince in his hands. There is that show me attitude. I'll see it. I'll believe it when I see it. Of course, that's not a very biblical attitude. Jesus said, if thou canst believe, thou shalt see the glory of God. We put the cart before the horse in so many things. And in this area, we often do. I'll believe it when I see it. The Bible says you'll see it when you believe it. Do you believe the wind exists? You say, of course. Have you ever seen the wind? No. I've never seen the wind. Yet I believe the wind exists. I'd be a fool if I didn't believe the wind existed. How do I know the wind exists? Well, I have felt it. I've been pushed by it. I have felt its pressures. It's blown dust in my eyes. I can see the effect of the wind. I can see the trees as they are bending over. I can see the leaves. I can see the leaves as they are being blown. I can feel it and I can see its results. And thus, though I have never seen it, I believe in it. And so it isn't that hard to believe something that you haven't seen. I have felt God. I have seen the results of God. I have seen the effects of God. And though I have never seen God, yet I have seen the work of God, the effects of God, and I have felt God. And thus, I believe, though I have never seen Him. But I do not have difficulty with believing what I have not seen when I can feel it and when I can see the effects and the results. When they knew God, they knew God through nature. But what can they know of God through nature? Paul tells us that we know of His existence. We know of His infinite wisdom from all of the various life forms. We know His eternal power as we observe the stars in their orbits, as we observe the planets in their orbits, as we observe the moon in its orbit. We see the power of our Creator. Have you ever wondered what kept the earth spinning on its axis? No, when I was a kid, you know, we had seasons for everything. Every year round, we had seasons. And I don't know who established and when, but I know that there was a season when we played marbles. And that went for a season. And then there was a top season when I was a kid. And we'd all be getting tops. And we used to be able to do some remarkable things. I don't see tops much anymore. I don't know, maybe they've determined that they were too dangerous or something. But when we were a kid, they were a lot of fun. You learn how to wind a top. There were two ways. You could take your first wind around that little knob on the top, and that's the way I always did, and then down and around. And you'd throw that one upside down, and you can really flip it and get it spinning. Well, we would then, you know, the first guy would spin his top, and then the rest of us would throw our tops down, trying to hit his. And the idea was to split it and to ruin his top. And we used to sharpen the points on our tops. And it was amazing the accuracy that we could develop in throwing the top down. But then, oftentimes, you know, we'd do a lot of things with the top, so you'd get a top spinning real well, and then you could take your, spread your fingers and put it underneath, and you could get the top spinning in your hand. And it was always, to me, a fascinating thing to have the top spinning in my hand because you could actually feel the force, the power and the forces of the top spinning, and you could, you could just feel it. And, of course, as long as it was spinning rapidly, it would stand straight. But as it would begin to slow down, then it would begin to, the bottom little spike would begin to move in an orbit itself. And then the top would begin to wiggle, and then it would roll over and then roll around the room, you know. But I did not understand the law of thermodynamics, but I was aware of the existence of that law because I was aware that no matter how fast I spun the top, that gradually it would slow down and finally roll over and stop. I could not spin the top fast enough to just keep the thing continually spinning. The law of thermodynamics slowed it down and stopped it ultimately. What keeps the Earth spinning on its axis? Now, I can understand what keeps the Earth in orbit. I can understand the gravitational pull and constantly falling, and so its relationship to the sun and the speed that it's traveling, and it's constantly in this falling mode. And so I can understand the Earth's orbit around the sun. But what keeps the Earth constantly moving on its axis is something that I don't quite understand, whether or not it's electromagnetic forces or whatever, but yet the Earth is constantly, you know, it's not, it's continuing to just spin on its axis and has done so ever since I can remember. The forces of God, the laws of God in nature. Now, you may be able to give me a scientific principle whereby the Earth does rotate on its axis. You say it's following this particular law of nature. Oh, I appreciate that information because you are now acknowledging that there are laws that govern nature. And if indeed there are laws that govern nature, there must be someone who established those laws. And so we're brought again back to God. Who tilted the Earth at 23 and a third degrees on its axis in the relationship to the sun so that we could have our seasons? And so I can know of God, I can know of His power, His wisdom, His existence, and of His deity, Paul said. We know of His, His Godhead, verse 20, which is deity. The God of your life is that governing force over your life. Whatever is a governing force is a God. Now, the one, the governing force who established the laws and rules over the laws of nature is God. And so nature testifies of one who rules over the laws of nature, having established them and then rules over them. He is the God of creation. As you look at your own life to determine what is the governing force behind your life, you will discover your God. And unfortunately, many times, it is something other than the God who rules over nature, the God who created all things. For men have many gods. Philosophies by which a man lives, concepts, ideas that govern a man's life. It needs to be said that every man has a God. Every man is ruled by some concept, some idea. Even the atheist has a God because he is governed by some principle or force of life. Now, there were men who were foolish enough to try to change the true and the living God. Why would a man want to change God? Well, we are told, first of all, that they didn't want to glorify Him. For when they knew God, they would not glorify Him as God. I know that He has established laws. I don't want to follow them. I want to direct my own life. I do not want to yield myself to His governing power or force. I want to do my own thing. And so I seek to change God because He might request of me something that I am unwilling to do. And so man in his folly would change God to his own likings. You see, I would like to be God myself. Rather than giving Him glory, I would like to receive glory. Rather than adoring Him, I would like to be adored. And so I have within me that desire to be God, to govern my own life. And it's been expressed in a poetic form. I am master of my faith. I am captain of my soul. My head is bloody but unbowed. And there are many people who like to feel that. I control my own destiny. I am the master of my faith. I am the captain of my soul. I will do what I please. And so when I find that what I please is in conflict with what pleases Him, then I find myself in that position of seeking to change God. They sought to change God because they were not thankful. Now, unthankfulness usually proceeds from a self-God delusion. In other words, you owe it to me. And there are people who go through life feeling that everything is owed to them. And they begin to take God for granted. They begin to take the blessings of God for granted as though it was owed to them. Rather than giving thanks unto God for all things, I begin to feel, well, I am worthy of it. I deserve it. You ought to be doing for me after all. Look who I am, you see. And that leads to an unthankfulness for things that are done. Now, in reality, God never owes me thanks for anything that I can do or have ever done. God never needs to say to me, Oh, thank you, Chuck. I really needed that, you know. There's nothing I can do for God that He really needs. Thus, God never owes me any thanks because He is God. I am His subject. And whatever I do, I am doing as His servant, as His subject, because that is my relationship to Him. And thus, He doesn't owe me thanks for anything that I do for Him. But when I get that God concept of myself, then I begin to take that attitude, Well, I deserve it. Or, Oh, you owe it to me. And I become unthankful. And I become unthankful to God. And I seek then to change God because I don't appreciate what He is. They sought to change God because their foolish hearts were darkened. We are told that men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. They did not want to come to the light, lest their evil deeds would be reproved. And so because God is light, and I love living in darkness, I would like to change God from that light that He is and bring Him into my darkness that my evil heart would not be exposed. Now, how did they seek to change God? Well, they sought to change God by attempting to explain nature without God. You see, they looked at nature and they saw the marvelous aspects of nature. They saw the testimony of nature, of the existence of God. They saw the design and all. But then, coming at nature from a presuppositional base that God does not exist, I have to explain nature now apart from God. And to do that, I have to become, as Paul said here, vain in my imagination. In other words, it takes an awful lot of imagination to explain nature apart from God. For instance, I look at myself and I realize I have the capacity to see that here I have two eyes that are held in place by six muscles, that there are many interesting and fascinating aspects to my eyes, the pupils that are able to dilate according to the amount of light that they're being exposed to, to become very small when the light is bright, to shut out that light, to open up, to emit more, or to receive more light when the light is dimmer, the muscles that focus the images onto the retina and bring it closer or further so that I can focus in on what I see so that it isn't blurry, and to, to transmit these images at the rate of about 18 per second onto this vitreous type of jelly that exists in there, and then transmit them into vibrations that run on these little lines into my brain so that my brain is then interpreting these 18 frames per second as the movement and all, and then interpreting it all, what I see moving and so forth. Now, this is a marvelous capacity indeed, and how in the world is it that I have this capacity to see? Now, God does not exist. I come from that presuppositional basis. Therefore, once upon a time, billions of years ago, there was a little worm-like creature that was emerging out of the primordial ooze, and as he came out of the mud, he became exposed to the sun, and as he had that exposure to the sun, these various rays of the sun, the ultraviolet and so forth, caused the mutations, and it formed a freckle on this little worm-like creature. And day after day, as he was exposed to the sun, over a process of millions of years, and by the result of fortuitous concurrences of accidental circumstances, this freckle gradually developed into an eye, and this little worm-like creature was able to see. But how did it know what it was seeing? Well, once upon a time, billions of years ago, as the result of these fortuitous concurrences of accidental circumstances, there also developed a little capacity here to create DNA molecules, and in these molecules, to store certain information, and catalog it. You see, you have to become pretty vain in your imaginations if you come to nature with a presuppositional base that God does not exist. You not only become vain in your imaginations, but as the Scripture said, professing yourself to be wise, you really become a fool. And I am amazed at the foolish things men believe when they see something. They believe in God. Now, all you have to do is come up with some new theory by which you can explain some form of life apart from God, and immediately you'll have thousands of people acclaiming your theory as brilliant scientific research, because man doesn't want to yield his life to God's control. He doesn't want to retain God in his mind, and thus he is anxious for any plausible explanation of anything that would rule out the existence of God. So you can get a broad following and great applause for any kind of a theory that eliminates God, because wicked, evil man doesn't want to believe in God. I remember the story of the king who hired a couple of rogues to make him a new suit. And these rogues said to him, Oh, we've got just the material. It's very exotic. And only those who are extremely wise can see it. Just the brilliant people are capable of seeing this material. And we will make you a suit of this material. And so they began to measure the king and feigned the sewing of this material. And they would hold it up to the king's counselor, and they'd say, How do you like the material? And of course, none of them wanted to appear stupid. So they all said, Oh, the material is absolutely beautiful. Marvelous. How do you like the texture? Oh, it's just great. The color all right? Oh, yes. Because of course, they didn't want to appear to be stupid. And so they all feigned to see the material that was being made by these rogues into the suit for the king. And finally, after many days of careful sewing and all, they put the suit on the king, and the time came for him to go out among his subjects. And so he proudly marched out of the palace wearing his suit that only the brilliant people could see. And some poor fool said, The king is naked. Now, we don't want to appear unintelligent. We don't want to look like stupid heads. And so they come up with all of these kind of vain imagination, fanciful tales of how man came into existence apart from God. And everyone says, Oh, beautiful, marvelous. Yes, I see, I see. But then some fool like me comes along and says, The king is naked. Professing themselves to be wise, they actually became fools. For the fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. And any time you try to eliminate God, you're a fool. They tried to change God by making God like man. And so verse 23, They changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. Now, it is interesting to look at the pictures of the gods of the various cultures around the world that have been worshipped by man and even to the present day are being worshipped in many areas by men. As they have sought to portray their gods in the little images or the paintings, some of them are human-like looking, oftentimes extremely grotesque. Some of them look somewhat like half human, half animal. Some of them, some of them have a more animal look than a human look, as man has sought to portray his concept of what God must look like. It is interesting to me that universally in every culture, as they seek to portray gods, so often when there is that gargoyle type of face, not quite human, but sort of human, they always have, it seems, the mouths open and the tongues hanging out, which is really the sign of a dodo. You know, if a person walks around with his mouth open, you say, well, he's a dodo, you know. He doesn't have anything going. And yet men have made this universally as a representation of their god. Get out your encyclopedias. And look at these images that are worshipped in India. Used to be worshipped in China, Tibet and all. See if it isn't so. They changed the glory of an incorruptible god as they sought to fashion him like unto man. You see, that's it. Man would like to make God like himself. It is interesting that man is seeking to change God, but in the same token, God is seeking to change man. Man is seeking to change God like himself, and that's exactly what God is doing. He's seeking to change man like himself. We with open face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being changed from glory to glory, even into the same image by the power of His Spirit working in us. God wants to change me. Now, I would like to change God, you see, so I could live more comfortably with Him. But God is wanting to change me so I can live more comfortably with Him, bringing me into His likeness. Now, if I am changing God like me, then that is a progress of degradation, and it goes down, down, down. And Paul follows the degradation down here. He said that as we seek to change God, our foolish hearts become darkened. Even the light that I have becomes extinguished. I become lost in that darkness, and then I become a fool, begin to believe foolish imaginations of men. And as a result, God gave them over to the filthiness of their own desires of their own hearts. Because I want to do those things that are in my heart, God lets me turn over to these filthy imaginations and desires of my heart. And we see today some of the horrible things that men do as they follow their own evil, corrupted, perverted desires. I could not tell you in this mixed company the abuses of little two-year-old girls abused by the perversion and the perverted minds of adults. What a sad story of degradation as man seeks to change God, to live by his own rules and to live by his own desires. Especially when God gives a man over to the fulfilling of that filth of his own mind. And then they were given over to abnormal desires. For this cause, God gave them up to vile affections, to perverted desires. And then finally it says God gave them over to reprobate minds. You don't want to retain God in your knowledge? All right. God will give you over to a mind that is totally reprobate. And we read the list of the things that are done by men of reprobate minds. But trying to change God into your image is only a downward spiral into the pit. Whereas if I will allow God to change me into his image, that's always an upward trend as I become like the God who I serve. Man is on the ladder going one of two directions. Being drawn word by God, drawn upward by God as we are being changed into his image, descending into the abyss as we would seek to change God into our image. You belong in one of two categories. It would be important for you to discover which category you draw. You fall in. Because you're either on a downward spiral to the abyss or you're being drawn upward into an eternal existence with him.

Shall we pray? Father, help us to this morning seriously consider these words of truth that you have recorded for us. That we might know the truth. That we might walk in the truth. That we might follow the truth. That we would not believe a lie. That our vain imaginations would not carry us away to folly and to believe in folly. But, oh God, that we might believe in thee and bow our knees before you and to live for you. To love you and to serve you, Lord, as you change us into that which you would have us to be in Jesus' name. You know, as I consider these things from my heart, there just came a prayer, oh God, change me into your image. God, I would that you would work in me and change me into that person you would have me to be. Purify my heart, Lord, as you are pure. Make me righteous, Lord, as you are righteous. Oh God, work in me and change me, Lord. I need changes. God, help me not to try and change him to accommodate my standards, but may he change me that I might live by his standards. God, work in me by your spirit today. If you feel a special need of God's work in your life today and you'd like to just submit your life to him, that he might work in you. Maybe you're guilty of trying to change God and you see the consequences. Going down the tubes. I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room and there just bow your knee. Acknowledge God, the creator of the universe, as your Lord. Submit to be governed by him. You'll never be sorry. God bless you. Keep his hand upon your life. Watch over you. And may God indeed become God and Lord of each of our lives, that we might be changed by him to that person he wants us to be in Jesus.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ai93VKQD4c)