# 132 Turn To God, Joel 2:12 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** 75Cqwp8y6pE
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75Cqwp8y6pE

This morning we'd like you to turn with us to Joel 2.12.

Therefore also now, saith the Lord, turn ye even unto me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning. And rend your heart, and not your garments. And turn unto the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness. And it repenteth him of the evil. And who knoweth if he will return and repent and leave a blessing behind him? Notice that the scripture began with the word therefore. And Dr. J. Vernon McGee has taught us, now friends, whenever you find a therefore, you must ask wherefore. So wherefore is the therefore? For therefore is a beginning of a summary statement or of a conclusion. It never begins the thought. In going back in chapter 2, we find that Joel is prophesying of the Russian invasion of the Middle East in the last century. days. Ezekiel amplifies this particular event in chapter 38 and 39, but it is interesting and fascinating to me how that Joel, with the understanding and the knowledge of his own age, describes modern warfare, warfare like Joel had never seen or even dreamed of. And yet he describes modern warfare in the earlier part of chapter 2 as he describes the way these massive forces will come, how that they will utterly devastate and destroy everything that is before them. Before them, he said, it is like a garden of Eden. Behind them, it's like a desolate wilderness. And because God's judgment is going to come once more, he describes modern warfare in the form of this invading army. God is exhorting his people, therefore, because this day of great judgment and darkness is about to come, therefore, turn unto me, God said. When should a man turn to God? Well, as far as I'm concerned, the sooner the better. The wisest thing any man can ever do is to turn to God. It is interesting that I have never met a man who was sorry that he turned his life over to God. I've never had one come up to me and say, you know, I'm so sorry I turned my life over to God. In fact, what I usually hear is, oh, why did I wait so long? Why did I waste so many years? This past year, as we were at the Keswick Convention in England, a young man got up and gave his testimony. He is a jungle doctor, they call him, in Africa, committed his life to serving the Lord in this hospital there in Africa. As he began his testimony, he said, I committed my life to Jesus Christ. I committed my life to Jesus Christ. I committed my life to Jesus Christ when I was three years old, and my only regret is that I waited so long. Now, I have heard another version of that testimony. It usually is, though, many years that were wasted before turning your life over to God. The Bible encourages us to turn to God now. Behold, now is the accepted time. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him, while he is near, lest the evil days come when you say, hey, I have no pleasure in them. It's good to seek the Lord now, but we are to seek the Lord when there's no place else to turn. That's a good time to turn to God, and unfortunately, many people wait until then. They get their lives in such a total mess. They've tried everything they can possibly think of, and they're not able to think of, and even some others that others have suggested they didn't even think of them themselves. And it gets to the place where you get in such a tight position. Life becomes so almost unbearable that there's no place else to turn but to God. And they are forced by the circumstances of their lives to just turn to God. Well, it's better to turn then than to never turn at all. I was in Prescott, Arizona when I first started in the ministry. I had recently graduated from Bible college and subsequently was married. And my wife and I began our first pastorate in Prescott, Arizona. There was a lady who came to me one day quite distraught. And she said, Chuck, my son is in Prescott, Arizona. And I said, Chuck, my son is in the Veterans Whipple Veterans Hospital. I wonder if you would go visit him. I said, sure, I'll be happy to go visit your son. So, oh, no, no, no, I don't mean go over there right away. My son is extremely bitter against God. My husband was a minister. And in growing up, because the children were deprived of many things, he developed this tremendous bitterness. against God and he oftentimes will get violent around ministers and so I'm going to wait until I think he's in sort of a mellow mood and then I'll call you and and if you could go then but if you just go in you know no telling what he might do I said well I said you don't have to worry about me I said if he you know gets angry and curses me or or whatever gets physical I said I it doesn't bother me it doesn't worry me I can handle myself and so you know whenever you feel that you want me to go I'll be glad to go well the next day she came back by the house and she was still very upset and she said I guess you'll have to go today he's not in a good mood but the doctors say he's not gonna live through the night and so you know if you're going to go you'll have to go now so I went out to the wetball Hospital there in Prescott and I went into the room and I saw this fellow lying there in a bed devastated by tuberculosis just a he looked almost like a skeleton just covered with skin-tight flat you know just just his horrible looking shape and I began to think that I might as well give him doctor Amin'sm的时候 to talk to Howard about the Lord and his bitterness. You could see it. Resentment. You could feel it. And he turned to me and he said, Chuck, before I had introduced myself to him, he said, a year ago I weighed 220 pounds. I was as strong as an ox. And he said, I hated God with every ounce of my being. He said, I delighted in cursing God, in calling God every foul thing I could think of. He said, I've hated God and I've been bitter against him. He said, I was with the purple gang of Detroit. And he said, I was just doing horrible things but enjoying it because I was doing them against God who I hated so much. He said, now look at me. He said, I weigh 97 pounds. And he said, I know I'm on my last legs. He said, for me to come to God in this condition would be cowardly. And he said, one thing I'm not is a coward. Well, under my breath I was praying, God, help me. And I looked at him and I said, Howard, I know this. God loves you more than you've ever loved anyone. Even when you were bitter against him. Even when you hated him. Even when you were calling him by all of those foul names. He never stopped loving you. And how do you know that God in his love for you did not allow you to get in this condition because he knew that in any other condition you would never call on him. As long as you were strong and healthy and all, you would continue to hate him and be bitter against him. So maybe knowing that he's allowed you to get in this condition just because he loved you so much and he wanted you to call on him. And he knew that this was the only way. He began to stare at me. It seemed like eternity but I'm sure it was only about 60 seconds. And then a smile broke across his face. He said, Chuck, you're right.

When tears began to form and roll down his cheeks, he turned to God. And no place else to turn. Sometimes God puts you in a corner where there is no place to turn but to him. Time to turn to the Lord. The condition that God is describing in chapter 2 is desperate. There's no place to turn. You can't turn to the United States for help at this point. You can't turn to anybody. It's time to turn to God. How are we to turn to God? Here we read, Turn unto me with all your heart. You know, some people who on the surface seem to be turning to God are not really turning to God with all their heart. Many times a person is turning only for the solution to their problem. They're not really turning to God. They're just looking for someone to help them out of their mess. And they're so desperate, they come to God seeking help out of their mess. And as soon as God helps them out of their mess, they attribute it to natural causes. Oh, it would have happened anyhow. And they are right back in their old path, right back in the old way. And you just have to, in observing of them, say, well, they really didn't turn to God with their whole heart. They weren't really looking for God. They were only looking for answers to their immediate problem. Like the little boy who lost his grip as he was sitting on the top of the barn and started sliding down the barn roof. And as he saw himself coming towards the edge and knew he was going to fall on the ground, he began to cry out, Oh, God, help me. Please, God, help me. If you'll help me, I'll serve you all my life. And suddenly his pants caught on a nail and as he came to a ripping halt, he looked up and said, Never mind, Lord, forget what I said. The nail stopped me. But we are so often like that, where we cry out in desperation to God for help and then we're like, when God begins to work, we attribute it to other causes. Well, never mind. God, I didn't really mean that. I wasn't really serious, God. And we're right back in our old ways, right back in our old path. All I was looking was for a solution out of my immediate problem. But God said to seek him with all of our hearts. God, in speaking through Jeremiah to the people, said, And I will be found of you when you seek me with you. With your whole heart. You see, one of the problems that many people have in relating to God is that they have only a half-hearted turning of themselves to God. Well, if God wants to help me, that's cool, man. I'll take it, you know. But they're not really desperate. They're not really seeking God with their whole heart.

James talks about the double-minded man, unstable in all of his ways. And he said, this man isn't going to get anything from God. Many times it takes really a real desperation of our heart before we really make connection and find then that power and that work of God within our lives. God said that we are to seek him not only with our whole heart, but we're to seek him with fasting and with weeping and with mourning. You know, sometimes the conditions of our lives, become so severe that we don't even feel like eating. Eating seems to be such a trivial, unimportant thing if my child is dying.

You know, you lose your appetite. You just don't feel like you want to eat. You don't want to do anything. You're just, you're so broken up. You're so grieved over what's going on, the things that are surrounding you, that you just don't feel like eating. And you find yourself just inside weeping and mourning over the fact that God is not with you. Over the problems and over the situation. That's the condition God wants you to come to him in. All torn up. Life is a mess. I don't feel like going on. I don't want to eat. I just feel like crying. I just feel like mourning. Oh, how ripe is that person to discover the glory and the power of God. God wants you to come in that condition to him. And to begin to seek him with your whole heart. And then the Lord said, Rend your heart and not your garments unto the Lord. Now these people had interesting customs that they had developed. And one of the customs was in order to demonstrate great grief or great consternation or just a overwhelming feeling in order to show you that God is with you. In order to show you that God is with you. In order to show you that God is with you. In order to show you that God is with you. In order to show you that God is with you. to show that kind of emotion, they'd take and start ripping up their robes that they were wearing. They'd just, you know, someone would come and say, oh, your son was just killed in an accident. Oh, no! You know, you start ripping your clothes, you're ripping your robes and all. And everybody says, oh, look how he's grieving. Oh, look how deeply he feels, you know. What deep emotions. And the deepest emotions were always displayed by ripping up your clothes. Now, God is saying, hey, don't bother ripping your clothes. I would rather see your heart that's ripped before me. Rend your hearts. Tear your hearts. Not your garments. You see, man may be looking on the outward appearance. God is looking on your heart. And when he sees your heart all ripped up, then is when he can work. Then is when he can move. As with all customs, people began to abuse. You see, you begin to do things for the effect it has upon others. So you want to do a little show. You want people to think that you really feel very deeply about this situation. So you start ripping your clothes. And everybody says, oh, you know, look how deeply he feels. You may not feel deeply at all, but, you know, you want people to think that you feel deeply. So you rip your clothes. And it became a custom that was abused by the people. Anything slightly go wrong, oh, help! Rip your clothes. And everybody says, oh, my, isn't that horrible? Look at that, how deeply he feels. Well, you may not feel deeply at all. And so God says, hey, that's not what I'm interested in. Not an outward demonstration. I want something in your heart. Rend your heart. Tear your heart. Not your garments. Why should I turn to God? In verse 13, we read, turn unto the Lord your God, for he is your God. He is gracious and merciful. We should turn to God because he is just so gracious and merciful towards us. You see, it doesn't really matter how unworthy you are. God wants you to turn to him. So many times we are in that same condition as Howard Goff. We say, well, you know, I've been such a rat and I've hated God and I've done all this against God. You know, to turn to God, you know, he meant he doesn't want me, you know, he's avoided me like the plague because I've avoided him. Not so. God is gracious and God is merciful. He doesn't react and respond like we do. Now, many times because of my wicked and perverse nature, if someone has been very mean to me and really done some dirty things to me, when they get into trouble, inwardly, I gloat. I think, man, you're getting what you deserve. Good enough. Now, the Lord's been dealing with me on that and I have to pray about that because that's a part of the wicked, perverse nature that I still possess of when, you know, somebody who's really been doing dirty things to me gets their comeuppance. I enjoy it. I love it. And that's wrong. Not like God. God is gracious. God is merciful. God delights in mercy. And it's important that we remember the difference between The Grace of God and the Mercy of God. For The Mercy of God is not giving to you what you deserve or what you have coming. And the Grace of God is giving to you what you don't have coming. My Dad has told me not to do a particular thing, but I disobeyed him. I did it anyhow, and I got caught. And my Dad said, Son, we'll deal with It anyhow, and I got caught. And my Dad said, Son, we'll deal with It anyhow, and I got caught. And my Dad said, Son, we'll deal with after dinner and you sit there at the table and you try to swallow your food but the food gets bigger in your mouth the longer you chew it every time you look at your dad you feel guilty you know what's coming after dinner it's a silent meal it's a hard meal I'm guilty I know I'm guilty you know I'm gonna get the belt after dinner so you finally finish your food no seconds hard enough to get down the first and you ask to be excused from the table and your dad says son I've decided this time not to spank you oh that's mercy that's great you know I'm not gonna get what I've got coming you know the football game you've been wanting to go to tonight tickets have been up and running I've been wanting to go to tonight I've been wanting to go to tonight have all been sold out for a month I was able to get a couple of tickets I'm gonna take you to the ball game tonight son whoo that's grace that's getting what I don't deserve now God is not only merciful if we will turn to God he is gracious and he begins to bless us with blessings that we have no right to we do not deserve but oh the grace and the mercy of God and then it says he is of great kindness now words are mental pictures and many times our mind has a picture that we can't put into words many times I know what I want to say but I don't know the words to say it I'm fishing for a word because I have a mental picture and and I am looking for a word that will describe what's in my mind the word kindness is one of those words that is really difficult to define there is a mental picture an image that we have of kindness and I'm looking for a word that will describe kindness in fact if I say he was the kindest old gentleman I ever met now we can get a mental picture of what he was like because we've all met these beautiful kind old gentlemen but kindness is sort of a composite it's sort of a combination of sweetness of generosity of gentleness of loving and I mean it's it's sort of all of them coupled together and and we get the picture of this kind person but you take the kindest person that you know and stand him next to God and by comparison he will look extremely cruel oh the kindness of God I should turn to him because I can be sure that he will be very kind towards me he is of great kindness and Joel said it repents him of the evil now what that means is that God doesn't like to use harsh measures on you it doesn't delight God when he has to tighten the screws on your life God doesn't delight in bringing pain or suffering or sorrow into your life he is sorry for the evil God would much rather you turn to him in good circumstances God would much rather you turn to him in response to his love and so God first always approaches your life through love declaring unto you his love for you seeking to draw you by his love unto himself because I love you this is what I have done for you and because I love you this is what I have planned for you and if you'll just turn your life over to me then I will do this and I will do this and ultimately I will bring you into my eternal kingdom and you'll enjoy the beauty and the glory and the blessings of dwelling with me in a world without end and God tells you of his love for you and that which he desires to do for you because he loves you but if I do not respond to the love of God God continues to love me and he loves me for the sake of his love.

so deeply that he will do whatever is necessary to do to bring me to that love to cause me to turn for God knows that the greatest need in my life is turning my life over to God God knows that if I don't do that I'm going to destroy myself and he knows it is of utmost importance to me that I turn my life over to him and thus he does whatever is necessary even to bringing pain or sorrow or heartache unto my life in order that I might turn my life ultimately over to him it repents him of the evil God doesn't like to use those painful processes to bring us to himself but if necessary he will because he loves us and then we should turn ouruję turn ouruj Okay well then we'll be turning right to the end. turn ouruj our lives over to God because who knows just what blessing God might bestow upon us. Just what God might have in mind for our future if we would just turn our lives over to him. In verse 14 we read for who knows if he will return and repent and leave a blessing behind him. Who knows what blessing God has in store for you. You'll never know until you turn your life over to him. You know it's interesting to me in the scripture all of the interesting and glorious things that were discovered by men who ventured out on a who can tell or who knows when Jonah went to the city of Nineveh and preached unto them he did not preach the gospel. Jonah had no gospel for the Ninevites. He had only a message of God's judgment and he preached it with relish because he wanted them to be destroyed. They were enemies to the people of God. They had harmed the people of God and when God said to Jonah I'm going to destroy Nineveh Jonah said have at it God good enough. He's like me. He likes to see God's judgment on his enemies. And so finally forced to go to Nineveh he had only one monotonous message. Forty days and comes destruction. And under his breath he is saying I'm good enough for you. I'm going to destroy you. I'm going to destroy you. I'm going to destroy you. I'm going to destroy you crumbs you know. Can't wait. Forty days and comes destruction. And the king repented and called for a general fasting among the people and he put on sackcloth and he repented before God and he called the people to fast and pray for he said who knows maybe God will have mercy and avert the judgment. And you know what? When they turned to God, God did avert the judgment. Made Jonah mad as could be. But yet God was gracious and merciful and did not bring the judgment that was promised against Nineveh because they turned. Who knows what God might have in mind and in store for your life. The blessings that God may have for you. You'll never know. Until you turn to him. There were four leprous men outside of the city of Samaria living off the garbage that was thrown over the walls. But the Syrian King had come and encircled the city of Samaria and had cut off all of their outside supplies so that the people in Samaria were now starving to death. The conditions became so bad that they started selling a jawbone of a donkey for sixty-five pieces of silver. So a person could boil it and make jawbone donkey soup. Anything to get some kind of nourishment. Now because these men were living off the garbage they were really in bad shape because no garbage was coming over the wall. They were eating it in the city. So as they sat there one of them started looking at the other three and you always in that condition got suspicious when someone was looking at you. And he said to them, Why do we sit here until we die? Look fellas, things are desperate. If we just sit here we're gonna die. Now there's no sense of going into the city of Samaria because they're dying in there. They're in the same condition we are. They're starving to death. Why don't we go over to the camp of the Syrians? If they kill us we haven't lost a thing. Because we're about ready to die anyhow. But who knows? Who can tell? Maybe they'll have mercy on us and give us a crust of bread. Who knows? You know we can't just stay in this shape. We're gonna die. It's gonna kill us. Let's move. Let's try it. If they kill us we haven't lost anything. It's gonna go down the tubes anyhow. Who knows? Maybe they'll have mercy and give us a crust of bread. Who can tell? So these four leprous men started for the camp of the Syrians. And God worked a miracle. He caused the Syrians to hear the sound that sounded like the rumbling of chariots. And they began to panic. They said the king of Samaria has hired the Egyptian mercenaries and they've come with their chariots and they're gonna wipe us out. We better get out of here. And the Syrians began to run pell-mell in panic leaving everything. So that by the time these four leprous men came to the first tent and pulled back the flaps there was dim light. There was dinner all set on the table, hot and ready to eat. And these guys plunged in, and they began to eat until they were just gorged. And then they went to the next tent, same story. Tent was empty, the dinner table was full, and they were just eating it up.

They discovered there was more than enough for everybody. But they had to step out on who knows. Well, you can know, God has promised you, that if you will turn to Him, He will take those loose ends of your life, and He'll begin to put it together as it should have been from the beginning. It's time to turn to God. I pray that you'll do so today.

Shall we pray? Father, we're so thankful that we can turn our lives over to You and experience Your kindness. Your kindness, Your mercy, Your grace. Lord, as You look upon our hearts today, You see those hearts that are churning, those hearts that are in such turmoil. You're very well aware of those circumstances, Lord, that have driven these people to seeking God, because You created those circumstances so that they would seek You. Oh, God, today, help. Help them, Lord. That they might turn their lives over to You just now and find those rich blessings that You desire for them through Jesus. If you would like to turn your life over to God today, I encourage you to go back to the prayer room. It's on your far right, the door that goes behind the block wall. And the pastors and counselors will be back there to pray with you and to minister to you, that you might discover today God's plan for your life, the kindness, the goodness, the grace, the mercy of God, that He might set you on a new path, His path of righteousness, that you might begin to walk in fellowship with the Lord and know the power of God's Spirit working in your life. May the Lord be with you, and may the Lord bless you as you turn your life and this week over to the Lord for whatever He might have in mind for you. Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

May you discover the joy, the beauty, the power and the love of Jesus Christ as He works by His Spirit in your life. In Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75Cqwp8y6pE)