# 122 When God Pours His Spirit On Israel, Ezekiel 39:27-29 - Pastor Chuck Smith, t2000 Series

**Video ID:** Db2oo0DBTZA
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Db2oo0DBTZA

We'd like to draw your attention this morning to Ezekiel chapter 39, beginning with verse 27.

Ezekiel 39, 27. Here God declares, When I have brought them again from the people, and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations, then shall they know that I am the Lord their God, which caused them to be led into captivity among the heathen. But I have gathered them unto their own land, and have left none of them any more there. Neither will I hide my face any more from them, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord God. Here's a glorious prophecy of the day when Israel will recognize that they have been saved from the wrath of God. He says that the Lord is their God, and he pours out his Holy Spirit upon them. We find that the time of this prophecy is stated in verse 27. When I have brought them again from the people, and gathered them out of their enemies' lands. The Bible predicted that the Jewish people would be dispersed through all the world and scattered. But the Bible also predicted that after many years, God would bring them back and reestablish them in the land that he had promised to their father Abraham. In Ezekiel chapter 37, Ezekiel sees a vision of a valley that is full of dried bones that have been scattered. And as he was looking at this valley of dried, scattered bones, the Lord spoke to him and he said, Ezekiel, can these bones be scattered? Can these bones be made to live again? And Ezekiel said, Well, thou knowest, Lord. And he heard a sound of a rustling noise, and he saw the bones as they began to come together and be connected together. He watched as the bones became a skeleton, and the skeleton stood on its feet. And he continued watching as muscle and sinew developed upon the skeleton, and then as it was covered with, with skin. And the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel, saying, The bones are my people, who have been scattered throughout all of the nations. But I am going to gather them together again, and I'm going to bring them back into the land. Behold, the Lord said, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen where they have gone, and I will gather them on every side and bring them into their own land, and I will make them into the land of Israel. And I will make them one nation in the land. Now, we saw chapter 37 of Ezekiel fulfilled in 1948. When Israel became a nation once again, the 37th chapter of Ezekiel was completely, literally fulfilled. So that half of the prophecy has already come to pass. But for him to pour out his spirit upon the nation of Israel and they to recognize him as God, there is a second event that must take place, the latter portion of this 27th verse. And I am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations. Now, 37th chapter is fulfilled, but as we move into chapter 38, the Lord tells Ezekiel that in the last days, when he has brought the people back in the land and they are dwelling there as a nation, he's going to put an evil thought into the minds of the leaders of Russia. And they will come with the Eastern European nations, with the Balkan states, with Libya, with Ethiopia, with Iran and Iraq, and they are going to have a massive invasion of the land of Israel. And this massive invasion by these allied Russian forces are predicted in the 38th chapter of Ezekiel. But there the Lord declares in chapter 38, beginning with verse 18, and it shall come to pass at the same time when the leader of Russia, Gog, shall come against the land of Israel, saith the Lord God, that my fury will come up in my face. For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath, I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have seen the Lord, and I have spoken. Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel, so that the fish of the sea, the fowls of the heaven, the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all men that are upon the face of the earth shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground, and I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains, saith the Lord God. Every man's sword shall be against his brother, and I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood, and I will rain upon him and upon his bands and upon the many people that are with him an overflowing rain, great hailstones, fire, and brimstone. God thus describes how he will destroy these invading armies headed by Russia, and then the Lord declares, here's this significant thing. Thus will I magnify myself and sanctify myself, and I will be known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am the Lord. So this prophecy of Israel recognizing the Lord as their God and his pouring his spirit upon them comes at the time, that he destroys the Russian army. For at that point, he will be sanctified before the nations of the earth, as is told in verse 27, the latter part, and I am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations. That comes at the destruction of the Russian army. Now, what does God predict? And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, which caused them to be led into captivity, among the heathen. But I have gathered them into their own land, and have left none of them there anymore, neither will I hide my face anymore from them. At this time, there will come in Israel a national recognition of God. Today, only about 10% of the people in Israel, that is the Jews that are there, are religious. The religious, faction in Israel is a very small minority. A few years ago, when we were traveling in Israel, we picked up a young Jewish girl who was in the military service. And my wife began to witness to her, talk to her about the Lord. And she said, well, my wife said to her, do you believe in God? And she said, no. My wife said, well, have you ever read the Bible? She said, of course, we have to. It's required in school. My wife said, but what do you then think about the Bible? She said, man made up these stories, but all they are are just myths. Man needed to believe in something, and so he made up all of these stories so he could believe in something. But then she spoke of her grandparents who were killed during the Holocaust. And the whole idea was, if God exists, how come my grandparents were killed? In the Holocaust. And if you talk to the Israelis today, almost all the way through, you'll hear them say, where was God when the Holocaust took place? And the idea is, if a God existed, the Holocaust could not have happened. And therefore, most of them have become atheists and really do not believe in God.

After the 1960s, after the 1967 war, the Jews at that time were a very proud and cocky people. We tried to talk to them about the Lord, but they felt that they really didn't need anybody's help. They had been able to destroy both Jordan, Egypt, and Syria in just six days. They were able to take the whole Sinai Peninsula, the western, uh, bank, and the Golan Heights. And you would talk to them, well, don't you think the Lord helped you? No way! You know, our support, our forces are superior and they were, they were very cocky and, and very proud. But after the 1973 Yom Kippur War, there was a dramatic, noticeable change as we talked to them. The arrogancy was gone. They were almost destroyed in 1973. And they know it. The 1973 had, war had a codename among the Syrians and the Egyptians as the War of Annihilation. For they had determined to annihilate Israel in 1973, and they almost did it. Few people realize how close Israel came to being annihilated in 1973. And if it were not, for God's divine intervention, they surely would have been. And so after 1973, their attitude changed. Some of the kibbutzes, which have always been known for their atheism, even invited rabbis to come and start teaching the Bible for the first time. And people began to sort of acknowledge, well, maybe God has helped us or maybe there is a God. However, the Bible tells us that when God decides to destroy this invading Russian army, which is bent upon the destruction of Israel, that they will know then, there will be no question left in anybody's minds, that the Lord is God over Israel. And God said He will no longer hide His face from them. Paul tells us in Romans the 11th chapter that blindness has happened to Israel, in part, until the fullness of the Gentiles is come in. That there is sort of a national blindness to these people as far as God is concerned, until God has drawn in the full amount of Gentiles that are to be saved. Paul also writes, concerning Moses, how that when he came down from the mountain, it was necessary that he put a veil over his eyes. And Paul said, even so, a veil is still over their eyes when they read the word of God. Moses veiled his face so they could not see the fading glory. But he said there's still a veil over their face when they read the word of God. They just don't see it. But the veil will be removed when God destroys this invading Russian army, and they will know that He is God. And God said, I will no longer hide my face from them. God will reveal Himself in such a way that they will acknowledge Him as their God, and then He will pour out His Spirit upon them and begin to work in a very special way by His Spirit among the people. Now, in a sense, God's prophetic clock has been stopped for almost, well, a little over, actually, 1900 years. In the prophecy of Daniel, chapter 19, in Daniel chapter 9, as Daniel is waiting upon God concerning the future, the angel of the Lord appeared unto Daniel and he said, Daniel, God has sent me to reveal unto you the future of your people. For there are seventy sevens determined upon thy people and the holy city. And in the seventy sevens there were six things that were to transpire. Number one, they were to finish the transgressions and an end of sin was to be made. Also reconciliation for iniquity. They were to bring in everlasting righteousness. They were to complete the prophecies and they were to anoint the most holy. Then the angel divided up the prophecy and he said, from the time that the commandment goes forth to restore and rebuild Jerusalem to the coming of the Messiah, the Prince, will be seven sevens and sixty-two sevens or 483 years. In 445 B.C., the commandment was given by Artaxerxes to Nehemiah to restore and to rebuild the temple. 483 years later, Jesus, the Messiah, the Prince, came. Just as the Lord said, from the time the commandment goes forth to restore and rebuild Jerusalem to the coming of the Messiah, the Prince, will be the sixty-nine seven-year periods or 483 years. But then the angel said something very interesting and for a Jew difficult to understand where he said, the Messiah will be cut off and receive nothing. And the Prince of the people that shall come will destroy the holy city and the people will be dispersed. So it is interesting that in the prophecy of Daniel when he told the year that the Messiah would come, he also predicted that the Messiah would be cut off without receiving the kingdom and that an enemy would come and destroy Jerusalem and the Jews would be dispersed. He didn't say the Messiah will set up the everlasting kingdom. He didn't say the Messiah will set up the kingdom of righteousness but rather be cut off. So Jesus when he came was cut off but in the crucifixion he made reconciliation for iniquity. He brought an end to our sins. He finished the transgressions. However, the last three, the setting up of the kingdom of everlasting righteousness, the completing of the prophecies and the anointing of the most holy place, was not fulfilled and is yet a future event. And since the Messiah was cut off, the prophecy clock has been standing still and will stand still until the people are gathered back in the land and God pours out his spirit upon them. Now, they are back in the land but there is still a national blindness. God has not yet revealed himself to them. They have not yet accepted the Lord as their God. That will happen when God destroys this invading Russian army and he no longer hides his face but pours his spirit upon them. So when that happens, you'll find the beginning of the final seven-year cycle for there were seventy sevens determined upon the nation Israel. Sixty nine were fulfilled but were in a holding pattern. The countdown stopped. But it will be started up again as soon as God pours out his spirit upon the nation Israel. Now as we turn to the prophecy of Joel, we find a very parallel prophecy there in chapter two. The Lord first of all declares in chapter two, at the time that he removes far off from them the northern army. Verse twenty. What an interesting passage. For he speaks in the earlier part of chapter two of this invasion of this great force. One of the greatest military forces ever assembled in the world will be coming against Israel with their chariots, breathing fire and all. But God speaks of his destroying of them and when he said, I have removed far off from you the northern army. When God has destroyed the Russian army as Ezekiel goes into great detail as we'll get into it tonight. The Lord declares then in verse twenty-five that he will restore the land and the things that they have lost to them. Verse twenty-seven. And you will know that I am in the midst of Israel. Then shall they know. He corresponds with Ezekiel. I'll no longer hide my face. They will know that I am the Lord. And you will know that I am in the midst of Israel that I am the Lord your God and there is none else and my people shall never be ashamed. And then what is God going to do? When they recognize that he is God. And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out. That I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and daughters shall prophesy and your young men shall see visions and your old men shall dream dreams. And also upon the servants and the handmaidens in those days will I pour out my spirit. So this same sequence that we read in Ezekiel when they recognize him as their God when he is driven off the Russian invading army at that point he will pour out his Holy Spirit upon them so we find the same sequel of events given to us in the prophecy of Joel. Then in the last days in those latter days I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. Then what is going to happen after God has poured out his spirit upon them? Notice verses 30 to 32 in Joel go on into the tribulation. I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth and in the earth will come the blood and fire pillars of smoke the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and the awesome day of the Lord come. There is coming that great and awesome day when Jesus comes again with clouds of glory to establish his kingdom upon the earth. But before that the earth is going to be going through a period of great tribulation. This blood and fire smoke the moon turned into blood and the sun into darkness before the great notable day of the Lord come was referred to by Jesus as happening prior to his return in Matthew 24 it is spoken of by Hosea it is spoken of of course in the book of Revelation it comes under the sixth seal of Revelation chapter 6 so the sequence of events the next major event having now gathered the people back in the land and established them as a nation the next major event will be the invasion of Russia which will be destroyed by God's power which will cause the Jews to realize that he is their God and will cause the nations to realize the truth of the truth God he will be sanctified before the nations and then God will pour out his spirit upon the nation of Israel the earth will go into this final bloodbath period the Great Tribulation when God will judge the earth for their rejection of his love and grace and then the great day of God will come when Jesus comes to establish the eternal kingdom here upon the earth and these events once they start are going to click off in rapid motion succession now the question that remains is where is the church in all of this scene you see right now the spirit of God has been poured out upon the church and the spirit of God has been drawing together the body of Christ the bride of Christ and has been preparing the bride for the wedding and when the fullness of the Gentiles is coming the bride of Christ is coming and the bride of Christ is coming and when the fullness of When the Spirit has completed His work among the Gentiles, drawing in the full Bride of Christ,

then the church will be caught up for the great marriage feast of the Lamb. And when the Spirit quickens our bodies and we are changed and caught up, then the Spirit of God will be poured out at that time upon the Jews. But at the time when God's Spirit is poured out upon the nation Israel, that precludes the church being here because the primary thrust of the Spirit during the church period is that of preparing the church for the glorious wedding that is to take place, the marriage of the Lamb. Now, as we look at the world, we see that God has set the scene for these final events. Israel is now a nation that is going to be a place of worship and a place of worship. Dwelling in the land. Russia is threatening the nation of Israel. Russia is arming the PLO. It is arming the Syrians. It is arming the Libyans. It is arming the Ethiopians. It has been arming the Iraqis.

And Russia just this year announced a mutual defense treaty with Syria. The Syrian troops have moved into Lebanon and have taken over Lebanon. They have brought missiles into the Beqa Valley of Lebanon. General Sharon, the defense minister of Israel, this past week announced that we have tried through diplomacy to get them to remove their missiles. It looks like diplomacy has not worked and it's up to us now to take other measures. Needless to say, that whole Middle East can explode at any time and you know that. I don't have to belabor the point. Now, I do not believe it's going to be a long, protracted, drawn-out war. In six days, the Israelis were able to take the whole Sinai Peninsula, the Golan Heights and the West Bank. And so it is wrong for you to be thinking, oh, well, if the war starts, starts, you know, then several months, you know, drag on. No, when Russia moves with an army of that size, you can be sure that they're planning on just about a 36th hour battle. And so when that invasion begins, things are going to pop so fast that before you even hear about it, it could all be over. And sometime, because God will intervene quickly and destroy this invading Russian army, sometime in that time, the Lord will take His church out of this earth. Now, it may be before Russia even strikes. It may be that the first event will be the Lord will take out His church, and then Russia will strike, almost simultaneously with the Lord taking His church out, or shortly thereafter, and you have just a matter of a few days, and the whole thing, bang, bang, bang, and it's over. Russia is defeated, and God's Spirit is appointed. It's upon Israel, and you enter into this final seven-year period.

We do not know, nor can we know, the day or the hour the Lord is coming for us, but we do know the times and the seasons. Paul said, of the times and the seasons, you have no need that I write unto you. For you yourself know that the day of the Lord is coming as a thief in the night, but you are not the children of darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Jesus said two things. He said, watch, and He said, be ready. And if you are not ready, then you are not the children of darkness. And if you are not ready, then you are not the children of darkness. And if you are not ready, then you are not the children of darkness. And if you are not ready, then you are not ready, then you are not the children of darkness. And if you are not ready, then you are not ready, then you are not the children of darkness. And if in any time in the history of the church we should be watching and be ready, it's today. The coming of the Lord is at hand. This whole thing can just go up at any time, and it behooves us to pay close heed. God's given it to you in advance so that you would not be taken by surprise or caught unaware. Now, it's up to you to respond and react. You can say, well, what a coincidence. Isn't that interesting? My. That's amazing. And you can just pass it off as just an amazing set of interesting coincidences that these men 2,000 years ago could predict with such accuracy things that are happening before your eyes. Or you can realize that God has spoken in order that you might be warned in order that you might not be caught by surprise. And you can then react to that warning in wisdom by being ready for the Lord. The Lord is coming soon. Shall we pray? Thank you, Father, for the advance notices that you've spelled it out, Lord, not once, not twice, but many times, repeated warnings so that there would be no mistaking about it, that you indeed have spoken. And, Lord, we see it coming right before our eyes. Lord, we're excited as we contemplate the next sequence of events that will take us out of this old, sin-cursed earth and bring us into your glorious presence that we might dwell with thee in thy kingdom. Lord, we pray for those today who are standing on the fence, who have not yet made that commitment to Jesus Christ. May they do so while there still is opportunity. In his name we pray. Amen.

The Lord said, Behold, now is the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation. Call upon the Lord while he is near. And I would encourage you to call upon the Lord today. I wouldn't let another day go by without being ready, because it may not go by before he comes. You and the Lord know the condition of your heart. And if you know that you're not ready, I would encourage you to go back to the prayer room and there just acknowledge God. Ask him to come into your life. Ask him to forgive you of your sins and just to take over, that you might begin that glorious life of fellowship with God, walking in the Spirit. God bless you. May God keep you and guide you and fill your heart with his love. And may he give you a beautiful Thanksgiving day. Personal I trust that you'll be a part of that company that is there in Jesus' name.

[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Db2oo0DBTZA)