---
title: "Bible: Judges 16:23-31"
tags: [bible, judges, history, ch16]
book: Judges
chapter: 16
verses: "23-31"
category: History
---


# Judges 16:23-31


## Passage

> **23** Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice: for they said, Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand. **24** And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us. {which...: Heb. and who multiplied our slain} **25** And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars. {them: Heb. before them} **26** And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them. **27** Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines {were} there; and {there were} upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport. **28** And Samson called unto the LORD, and said, O Lord GOD, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. **29** And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left. {on which...: or, he leaned on them} **30** And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with {all his} might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that {were} therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than {they} which he slew in his life. {me: Heb. my soul} **31** Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought {him} up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the buryingplace of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
>
> — Judges 16:23-31 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/Judges/Judges 15-16.md|Judges 15-16]]

## Cross-References

- [[Judges 14.md]]
- [[Judges 14_1-20.md]]
- [[Judges 14_12-18.md]]
- [[Judges 15.md]]
- [[Judges 15_1-8.md]]
- [[Judges 15_20.md]]
- [[Judges 15_9-20.md]]
- [[Judges 17.md]]
