---
title: "Bible: Judges 11:30-40"
tags: [bible, judges, history, ch11]
book: Judges
chapter: 11
verses: "30-40"
category: History
---


# Judges 11:30-40


## Passage

> **30** And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into mine hands, **31** Then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the LORD'S, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering. {whatsoever...: Heb. that which cometh forth, which shall come forth} {and...: or, or I will offer it, etc} **32** So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and the LORD delivered them into his hands. **33** And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith, {even} twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel. {the plain: or, Abel} **34** And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she {was his} only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter. {beside...: or, he had not of his own either son or daughter: Heb. of himself} **35** And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto the LORD, and I cannot go back. **36** And she said unto him, My father, {if} thou hast opened thy mouth unto the LORD, do to me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as the LORD hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, {even} of the children of Ammon. **37** And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my fellows. {go up...: Heb. go and go down} **38** And he said, Go. And he sent her away {for} two months: and she went with her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains. **39** And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her {according} to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel, {custom: or, ordinance} **40** {That} the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year. {yearly: Heb. from year to year} {to lament: or, to talk with}
>
> — Judges 11:30-40 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/Judges/Judges 8-14.md|Judges 8-14]]

## Cross-References

- [[Judges 10_1-5.md]]
- [[Judges 10_6]]
- [[Judges 10_6-18.md]]
- [[Judges 12_1-6.md]]
- [[Judges 12_1-7.md]]
- [[Judges 12_7]]
- [[Judges 12_8-15.md]]
- [[Judges 13.md]]
