---
title: "Bible: Judges 14:12-18"
tags: [bible, judges, history, ch14]
book: Judges
chapter: 14
verses: "12-18"
category: History
---


# Judges 14:12-18


## Passage

> **12** And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can certainly declare it me within the seven days of the feast, and find {it} out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirty change of garments: {sheets: or, shirts} **13** But if ye cannot declare {it} me, then shall ye give me thirty sheets and thirty change of garments. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it. {sheets: or, shirts} **14** And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle. **15** And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? {is it} not {so}? {take...: Heb. possess us, or, impoverish us?} **16** And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told {it} me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told {it} my father nor my mother, and shall I tell {it} thee? **17** And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle to the children of her people. {the seven...: or, the rest of the seven days} **18** And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What {is} sweeter than honey? and what {is} stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
>
> — Judges 14:12-18 (KJV)
## Referenced By

- [[C2000/Notes/Judges/Judges 15-16.md|Judges 15-16]]

## Cross-References

- [[Judges 12_1-6.md]]
- [[Judges 12_1-7.md]]
- [[Judges 12_7]]
- [[Judges 12_8-15.md]]
- [[Judges 13.md]]
- [[Judges 13_1-25.md]]
- [[Judges 13_2-24.md]]
- [[Judges 13_5]]
