---
title: "Bible: Isaiah 65:17-25"
tags: [bible, isaiah, prophecy, ch65]
book: Isaiah
chapter: 65
verses: "17-25"
category: Prophecy
---


# Isaiah 65:17-25


## Passage

> **17** For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. {come...: Heb. come upon the heart} **18** But be ye glad and rejoice for ever {in that} which I create: for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. **19** And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people: and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying. **20** There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner {being} an hundred years old shall be accursed. **21** And they shall build houses, and inhabit {them}; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. **22** They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree {are} the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. {shall long...: Heb. shall make them continue long, or, shall wear out} **23** They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they {are} the seed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with them. **24** And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. **25** The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust {shall be} the serpent's meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the LORD.
>
> — Isaiah 65:17-25 (KJV)

## Referenced By

- [[Heaven|Heaven]]
